Projects 
Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge 
Story and Narrative Structure 
Crime Types 
Of course. The types of crimes covered in true crime podcasts reveal a lot about what 
fascinates and horrifies listeners. While there’s significant overlap, the most common 
crimes covered tend to be those with elements of mystery, a shocking violation of trust, or 
a deep psychological puzzle. 
 
 
 
Here are the top 10 types of crimes covered in true crime podcasts, ranked by their 
prevalence and popularity within the genre. 
 
 
 
— 
 
 
 
The Top 10 Types of Crimes in True Crime Podcasts 
 
 
 
**1. Murder (Specifically Unsolved or Mysterious Homicides)** 
 
This is the undeniable king of true crime. However, not all murders are created equal in the 
podcast world. The most sought-after cases are **cold cases** or those with lingering 
doubts. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It represents the ultimate mystery and the ultimate violation. 
Unsolved cases allow listeners to play armchair detective, theorizing about whodunit. 
Solved cases with twists, like wrongful convictions or bizarre motives, are also hugely 
popular. 
 
* **Examples:** *Serial* (Season 1 on the murder of Hae Min Lee), *Up and Vanished* (Tara 
Grinstead cold case), *My Favorite Murder* covers countless cases. 
 
 
 
**2. Serial Killers** 
 
This is a sub-genre of murder but significant enough to stand on its own. Podcasts delve 
into the biographies, methods, motives, and capture of individuals who have killed multiple 
people. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It taps into a deep desire to understand the incomprehensible—the 
psychology of a person who commits repeated, horrific acts. There’s a chilling, almost 
mythical, quality to figures like Ted Bundy or the Zodiac Killer. 
 
* **Examples:** *Casefile* (excellent multi-part series on Jonestown, EAR/ONS/Golden 
State Killer), *Last Podcast on the Left* (deep dives on famous serial killers). 
 
 
 
**3. Disappearances & Missing Persons** 
 
Cases where a person vanishes without a trace are catnip for podcasters. The lack of a clear 
answer—are they a victim of crime? Did they choose to leave?—creates an enduring 
mystery. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** The ambiguity is powerful. It fosters endless speculation and hope 
(however faint) for a resolution. It also highlights the terrifying idea that someone can 
simply vanish. 
 
* **Examples:** *The Vanished Podcast* (dedicated solely to missing persons cases), 
*Missing and Murdered* (focusing on missing Indigenous women). 
 
 
 
**4. Con Artists, Frauds, & Financial Crimes** 
 
This category has exploded in popularity, moving from the periphery to the mainstream of 
true crime. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It’s about betrayal of trust on a massive scale and the audacity of the 
schemes. It’s often less gory than violent crime, making it accessible to a wider audience. 
Listeners are fascinated by the psychology of manipulation and the sheer glamour or 
absurdity of the scams. 
 
* **Examples:** *Swindled* (master of this genre), *The Shrink Next Door* (psychological 
manipulation), *Scamanda* (a recent viral hit about a faked cancer diagnosis). 
 
 
 
**5. Wrongful Convictions** 
 
Podcasts that investigate potential miscarriages of justice, where an innocent person may 
have been imprisoned for a crime they didn’t commit. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** This is true crime with a clear hero and mission: uncovering the 
truth and freeing the innocent. It provides a sense of purpose and advocacy for listeners, 
who often feel outraged by systemic failures. 
 
* **Examples:** *Undisclosed*, *In the Dark* (Season 2 on Curtis Flowers), *Wrongful 
Conviction*. 
 
 
 
**6. Organized Crime & Cult Investigations** 
 
This covers a wide range, from traditional Mafia families to dangerous cults and modern 
drug cartels. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It offers a sprawling, complex narrative about how entire systems of 
power, fear, and manipulation operate. Cult stories, in particular, fascinate because they 
explore how ordinary people can be led to commit extraordinary acts. 
 
* **Examples:** *Hooked* (on the Sackler family and the opioid crisis), *Heaven’s Gate* 
(deep dive into the cult), *Crimetown* (explores crime and corruption in a specific city). 
 
 
 
**7. Mysterious Deaths & Deaths with Unclear Causes** 
 
Similar to disappearances, these are cases where the manner of death is ambiguous. Was it 
an accident, suicide, or murder? Podcasts meticulously pick apart the evidence. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It satisfies the listener’s desire for forensic analysis and logical 
deduction. Debating the minute details of a crime scene or autopsy report is a key 
“armchair detective” activity. 
 
* **Examples:** *Accused* (often focuses on deaths with questionable rulings), many 
single-season investigative podcasts focus on one specific mysterious death. 
 
 
 
**8. White-Collar & Corporate Crime** 
 
A cousin to financial crimes, this focuses on crimes committed by professionals and 
corporations that cause widespread harm, often environmental or public health-related. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It exposes corruption and greed at the highest levels, making 
listeners feel informed and angry in a productive way. It answers the question, “How could 
they let this happen?” 
 
* **Examples:** *The Dropout* (Elizabeth Holmes/Theranos), *Bad Blood* (same topic), 
*Behind the Bastards* (covers corrupt individuals and corporations). 
 
 
 
**9. Historical Crimes & Cold Cases Re-examined** 
 
Applying modern forensic techniques and renewed investigative energy to very old cases 
that have been forgotten or mishandled. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It combines the appeal of a mystery with the fascinating context of 
history. There’s a sense of finally giving a voice to victims from another era and seeking 
justice long after it seemed possible. 
 
* **Examples:** *Bear Brook* (a landmark podcast that helped solve a decades-old cold 
case), *The Trail Went Cold*. 
 
 
 
**10. Petty Crimes & Heists with a Twist** 
 
Not all popular podcasts are about murder. Some of the most entertaining ones focus on 
bizarre, audacious, or comedic crimes like art heists, jewel thefts, or strange robberies. 
 
* **Why it’s popular:** It provides the puzzle and suspense of true crime without the heavy 
emotional weight of violence. It’s often fun, thrilling, and unbelievable. 
 
* **Examples:** *The Sneak* (about art heists and smuggling), *The Pretend Podcast* 
(often covers bizarre scams and imposters). 
 
 
 
— 
 
 
 
### Why These Crimes Dominate: 
 
 
 
The common thread is **mystery** and **psychology**. The best true crime podcasts are 
never just a recitation of facts. They are narratives that explore: 
 
* **The “Why?”:** What motivates a person to do this? 
 
* **The “How?”:** How did they get away with it (or how were they caught)? 
 
* **The Human Impact:** How did this crime destroy lives, families, and communities? 
 
 
 
This aligns perfectly with your game’s premise. By focusing on a “True Crime Merge,” 
you’re tapping into the listener’s (and player’s) innate desire to be the one who pieces 
together the clues to answer those fundamental questions. 
Overview 
Story and Narrative Structure 
1.0 Role & Objective 
The narrative is the motivational core of Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge, transforming the 
satisfying mechanics of merging into the tangible experience of being a detective. Its 
primary objectives are to: 
• Provide context and emotional stakes for all gameplay actions. 
• Make the player feel like they are actively piecing together a complex mystery. 
• Deliver a compelling, character-driven crime drama that encourages long-term 
engagement. 
For the complete story arc, character backstories, and chapter-by-chapter plot details, consult 
the Narrative Bible. 
2.0 Narrative Delivery System 
The story is delivered through a dual-voice system designed for a solo development scope, 
prioritizing impact over complex animation. 
• Dual-Voice Storytelling: 
– Real-Time Dialogue: The primary story vehicle, presented in a visual novel 
style. Features character portraits with expressive variants against thematic 
backgrounds. Players tap to advance conversations during investigations and 
interrogations. 
– Ally’s Podcast (Echoes of Havenbay): The game’s UI is diagetically framed as 
Ally’s podcast. Reflective narration provides chapter summaries, recaps, and 
thematic depth, serving as the primary vehicle for Ally’s internal monologue 
and exposition for the overarching mystery. 
• Illustrated Cinematics: For pivotal moments, a custom illustrated panel (comic-book 
style) with narration is used to heighten impact. 
• Dynamic Effects: To add life, we employ camera shakes, zooms, light flickers, 
atmospheric SFX, and screen overlays (rain, static, evidence tags). 
• Environmental Storytelling: The merge board itself tells a story through thematically 
grounded items (evidence fragments, personal effects). 
3.0 Episodic Structure & Integration Loop 
Narrative and gameplay are interlocked in a season-based structure. 
• The Season: The core mystery investigates the death of Ally’s father, Thomas Quinn, 
and its connection to the shadowy Ferryman. 
• The Episodes: Each chapter is a self-contained case that also reveals a clue connecting 
back to the seasonal arc. 
• The Investigation Cycle: 
– Briefing (Pre-Merge): Dialogue sets the scene and objectives for the next 
merge session. 
– Discovery (Mid-Merge): Context-sensitive voice-over lines or text pop-ups 
from Ally react to significant merges, providing immediate narrative feedback. 
– Debriefing (Post-Objective): Completing a key merge chain triggers a 
dialogue or cinematic where the clue is analyzed and the story advances. 
4.0 Player Agency & Branching 
Agency is designed to enhance immersion without creating narrative scope creep. 
• Investigation Order: Players can often choose the sequence of tasks, altering 
subsequent dialogue but not the critical path. 
• Dialogue Choices: Tone-based responses (empathetic, aggressive, professional) 
influence character relationship scores, potentially unlocking exclusive hints or 
dialogue later. 
• Scope Note: The core storyline is linear to ensure a cohesive narrative. These systems 
add role-playing depth without the exponential asset creation of true branching. The 
value of multiple endings will be re-evaluated post-launch. 
5.0 Pacing Strategy 
Pacing is carefully designed to balance narrative engagement with core gameplay. 
• Early Game (Chapters 1-2): Narrative-heavy. Frequent, short merge puzzles are 
interspersed with story beats to establish hooks. 
• Mid-Game (Chapters 3-5): Gameplay-focused. Merge sessions are longer and more 
complex, with story beats placed after major breakthroughs. 
• Late Game (Chapters 6+): Narrative-driven climax. The pace accelerates toward the 
resolution. 
• Golden Rule: No more than 3-5 significant merges occur without some form of 
narrative feedback. 
6.0 True Crime Authenticity 
The tone and style are inspired by the genre to enhance immersion. 
• Procedural Accuracy: Streamlined but authentic investigative procedures are baked 
into the merge chains and narrative. 
• Thematic Depth: Cases explore grey morality, systemic corruption, and personal 
tragedy, reflecting the complex nature of real crime. 
7.0 Critical Success Factors (Implementation Notes) 
• Podcast Narration Must Be Optional: All audio-based story content must be 
skippable and have a text-based alternative. 
• Dynamic Portraits are Non-Negotiable: Character portraits require a robust set of 
expressions to bring dialogue sequences to life. 
• Pacing is Paramount: Adherence to the “Golden Rule” is essential to maintain 
engagement and make merges feel meaningful. 
Throughline story 
The Thomas Quinn Throughline: A Legacy of Truth 
The mysterious death of investigative journalist Thomas Quinn is the foundational trauma 
and the primary narrative engine driving Ally’s journey in Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge. 
The Inciting Incident: Years ago, Thomas Quinn died in a suspicious car crash officially 
ruled an accident. The investigation was conspicuously rushed: a key traffic camera was 
“under maintenance,” witnesses were unreliable or silent, and the official report was filed 
with questionable timing. 
The Unshakable Suspicion: Ally’s grandfather, Gerald Quinn (a retired detective), never 
accepted the official story. Recognizing the hallmarks of a cover-up, he conducted his own 
quiet investigation but was ultimately pressured into retirement by forces within the 
system, told to “let it go.” 
The Connection to the Present: Gerald became convinced that Thomas’s death was linked 
to a much larger web of corruption in Havenbay City, orchestrated by a shadowy figure 
known only as The Ferryman. He believed Thomas was killed because he was getting too 
close to a truth that powerful people—including the outwardly respectable Councillor 
Evelyn Hart—wanted buried. 
Ally’s Mission: Ally, now a PI and podcaster, inherits both her father’s relentless drive and 
her grandfather’s unsolved case. Her investigation into contemporary crimes (the game’s 
cases) consistently reveals threads that lead back to the same network of corruption that 
Thomas was exposing. She isn’t just solving new mysteries; she is finishing her father’s 
final investigation. 
The Ultimate Revelation: The throughline culminates in the revelation that Thomas 
Quinn’s death was indeed an assassination ordered by The Ferryman, likely at the behest of 
or to protect Councillor Hart, whose “redevelopment” projects are a front for graft and 
power consolidation. Solving his murder is inextricably linked to unmasking The Ferryman 
and bringing down the corrupt structure that has plagued Havenbay for decades. 
In short: The personal quest to solve her father’s murder is the key that unlocks the 
city’s deepest conspiracy. This storyline provides the emotional stakes that transform the 
gameplay of merging clues into a deeply personal mission for both Ally and the player. 
Episodic storytelling 
Episodic Storytelling & The Podcast Framework 
1.0 The High-Level Structure: “Seasons” and “Episodes” 
• The Season: The entire game is structured as the inaugural season of Ally’s true-crime 
podcast, Echoes of Havenbay. The season’s overarching mystery is: “Who killed 
Thomas Quinn and what is the conspiracy he uncovered?” 
• The Episodes (Chapters): Each case is a self-contained episode of the podcast (e.g., 
Episode 1: The Kestrel Point Disappearance; Episode 2: The Viaduct Ghost). This 
provides a satisfying narrative arc that can be completed in discrete play sessions. 
• The Hook: Every episode has a dual purpose: 
1. Solve the Case of the Week: Find the victim, uncover the culprit, and achieve a 
self-contained resolution. 
2. Advance the Season’s Arc: Each episode concludes by revealing a clue that 
directly connects back to the larger conspiracy involving The Ferryman and 
Thomas Quinn’s murder. This clue often forms the basis for the next episode’s 
teaser. 
2.0 Anatomy of a Single Episode 
Each episode follows a predictable, satisfying structure that blends story and gameplay, 
now framed through the lens of podcast production. 
Part 1: The Cold Open & Briefing 
• Narrative: The episode begins not just with a cutscene, but with a podcast teaser. 
Ally’s voice-over (“Hey listeners, in today’s episode, we’re following a lead that starts 
with a single, rain-soaked ledger found near the docks…”) introduces the mystery, often 
over a stylized visual of a key piece of evidence. 
• Gameplay: This leads into a dialogue sequence where Ally gets the case, establishing 
the primary objectives. 
Part 2: The Investigation (Core Gameplay Loop) 
• This remains the core merge gameplay. The key integration is mid-investigation 
podcast narration. 
• Podcast Integration: As players merge items, Ally’s reflective podcast voice-over can 
kick in. “Looking back, this was the moment I knew the witness was lying. The data on 
the phone we found… it didn’t match his story at all.” This provides narrative 
commentary on the action. 
Part 3: The Twist & Climax 
• Narrative: The clues culminate in a revelation. This is often followed by a “mid-
episode” podcast break where Ally summarizes the twist for her audience, 
heightening the drama. “So it wasn’t a robbery gone wrong. It was a calculated hit. But 
who ordered it?” 
Part 4: The Resolution & Hook 
• Case Resolution: A final dialogue or cinematic wraps up the episode’s self-contained 
story. 
• Seasonal Hook & Reward: The reward for completing an episode is unlocking the 
full, produced podcast episode for that case. Listening to it provides a recap, deeper 
insight, and ends with a direct hook for the next episode. 
– Example: The podcast episode ends with Ally saying, “The money trail led us to 
a shell corporation… one that appears on the city’s approved vendor list for the 
Hart Civic Center project. Next time on Echoes of Havenbay, we take a closer look 
at City Hall.” 
3.0 How the Overarching Story Progresses 
The podcast framework makes the meta-narrative progression feel intentional and 
professional. 
EpisodeSelf-Contained CaseOverarching Story Progression (Podcast Narration)1 
(Tutorial)A simple burglary.Podcast Teaser: Ally explains she’s revisiting her father’s old 
notes, starting with a minor case he was looking into. The episode ends with her finding his 
signature pen at the scene, a clue he was there.2A murder.Podcast Recap: Ally connects 
the murder weapon to Silas Vex. A witness’s throwaway mention of “The Ferryman” 
becomes the episode’s central cliffhanger.3A data theft.Podcast Analysis: Ally and Alex 
Vega decrypt files on air, revealing corruption in city planning. The episode frames 
Councillor Hart not by name, but as “a powerful public figure.”Mid-SeasonA major 
confrontation.Podcast Revelation: After confronting a red herring antagonist, Ally’s 
podcast episode is raw and frustrated. She reveals the truth she learned: she’s chasing a 
ghost, a figure named The Ferryman.FinaleThe case that ties everything together.The 
Season Finale: The entire gameplay episode builds to this. The reward is the final podcast 
episode where Ally presents all the evidence, unmasking The Ferryman and Councillor Hart 
live to her listeners, vindicating her father. 
4.0 Benefits of This Model (Enhanced) 
• Perfect for Mobile: The podcast episode serves as a perfect, thematic recap for 
players returning after a break. 
• Clear Roadmap: The structure is ideal for development and live ops. “Season 2” is a 
natural extension. 
• Built-in Pacing & Retention: The podcast hooks (teasers and cliffhangers) are 
powerful drivers to keep players moving to the next episode. 
• Marketing & Authenticity: You can actually produce and release these podcast 
episodes as promotional content, blurring the lines between game and reality in a way 
that will deeply appeal to true crime fans. 
• Deeper Immersion: The player isn’t just solving cases; they are actively building the 
content for Ally’s podcast, making every merged clue feel doubly meaningful. 
 
In essence: The podcast doesn’t change the episodic structure; it thematically justifies it, 
enhances its pacing, and deepens the immersion. The game isn’t just like a TV series; it 
is the production of a podcast series, and the player is the lead investigator making it all 
happen. This is a significant and brilliant upgrade. 
Story Tone 
The Tone We’re Aiming For 
• Investigative, not brutal. The mysteries feel authentic and respectful—murky 
motives, small-town corruption, missing persons, fraud, cover-ups—rather than gore 
or shock value. The darkness is intellectual intrigue, not bloodstains. 
• Atmospheric noir-lite. A sense of foggy docks, whispered secrets, and unsolved 
puzzles. Visuals suggest noir influence (rain-slick streets, shadowed windows), but 
stylised to stay accessible and never oppressive. 
• Conversationally human. Ally’s narration and suspect dialogue are witty, sharp, and 
empathetic. She acknowledges the stakes, but her voice adds warmth and moments of 
levity—like a true crime podcaster who knows how to balance tension with humanity. 
• Empowering curiosity. The player feels like a clever investigator uncovering hidden 
truths. Merge mechanics serve this directly—each combination is a reveal, a step 
deeper into the case—so the tone is one of progress and discovery rather than grind. 
• Respectfully playful. Puzzles, suspect archetypes, and quirky environmental details 
add lightness without camp. A suspect might be hilariously evasive, or a clue might be 
hidden in a strangely mundane object (a grocery list, a city permit). The humour 
comes from human behaviour, not parody. 
 
Short Tone Statement (for GDD / Style Bible) 
“Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge delivers the intrigue and atmosphere of a noir-inspired true 
crime podcast—mysteries that feel authentic and worth solving—wrapped in a playful, 
bingeable merge puzzle experience. The tone is sharp, immersive, and human: mysterious 
enough to engage true crime fans, yet light and stylish enough to keep merge players 
comfortable and coming back.” 
Marketing & User Aquisition 
Game overview 
 
Image from Projects 

Key Messaging: 
A fresh spin on the merge genre, blending addictive puzzle mechanics with binge-
worthy true crime storytelling. 
Unique Selling Points: 
• Merge gameplay tied directly to solving cases. 
• Episodic format (podcast-like narrative beats). 
• Strong female lead (Ally Quinn) with multigenerational mentorship. 
• Southern coastal setting — moody, luxurious, and dramatic. 
Audience Segments: 
• Merge gamers (Gossip Harbor, Merge Mansion, EverMerge) who want new themes. 
• True crime fans (Serial, Crime Junkie listeners). 
• Female gamers 18–50: the core merge demographic. 
• Podcast/Netflix binge-watchers: those craving story-driven content. 
Brand assets 
Target audience 
 
Image from Projects 

Danielle H. (fictional ideal) 
Plays to feel like she’s part of a true-crime investigation, merging clues into evidence while 
uncovering a noir conspiracy that mirrors the kind of podcasts she already loves. 
Age: 29 
Marital status: Single 
Occupation: Digital Marketing Coordinator 
Location: Sydney, Australia 
Life Stage: Young professional, urban renter, time-poor but media-savvy 
Income:~AUD $78,000 per year (comfortable, but mindful of discretionary spend) 
Bio 
Danielle is a digital marketing coordinator in Sydney. She graduated 6 years ago with a 
communications degree and has been working in marketing since then. 
Although she enjoys her career and the creative campaigns she manages, she often finds 
herself needing a way to unwind after long, stressful days. While she listens to true crime 
podcasts during her commute, she’s been looking for something more interactive that lets 
her take part in the investigation. 
She earns a comfortable income but is careful with her spending, so she prefers free-to-play 
entertainment that respects her time. She is drawn to puzzle games with a strong story, and 
she wants a game that gives her the satisfaction of solving mysteries without demanding 
hours she doesn’t have. 
Needs 
• A mobile game that fits 20–30 minute sessions without punishing downtime. 
• Storytelling that’s more mature than the “cozy merge” genre—something that treats 
her love of true crime seriously. 
• Clear progression and rewards, without aggressive monetisation walls. 
Tech & Platforms 
• Plays on iPhone 13 Pro, earbuds always in. 
• Discovers new games via TikTok ads, App Store recommendations, and word-of-
mouth from friends. 
• Comfortable with rewarded ads, but values clarity (wants to know exactly what she’s 
earning). 
Frustrations & Pain Points 
• Hates being hard-gated by energy systems that stall story progress for days. 
• Finds most merge games “too grindy” or narratively shallow. 
• Feels underserved: loves crime media, but few games treat it seriously without camp 
or gore. 
Ideal experience 
• Immediate intrigue, zero slog. From the first session she’s pulled into a mystery with 
a familiar true-crime vibe—dialogue that feels podcast-ready, an atmospheric board 
that looks like evidence spread across a detective’s desk, and an easy first merge that 
gives her a dopamine hit fast. No long tutorial walls. 
• Merge that feels like sleuthing, not housekeeping. Each tree she builds (dusting kit 
→ fingerprint card → database match) is more than filler; it’s a clue that changes the 
suspect board. She feels clever for merging, not just tidy. 
• Energy that respects her binge habits. Danielle tends to play in bursts—on the 
commute, in bed, during breaks. She hates being brick-walled by stingy energy timers. 
Her perfect balance: a generous free-to-play loop for 20–30 minutes of engaged play, 
plus options like watching an ad to keep going when she’s on a roll. 
• Episodes she can unlock and own. After solving a case, she gets a podcast episode 
that feels like a trophy: fully voiced, with recap, suspects, resolution, and even Ally’s 
reflective sign-off. She listens while doing chores, then comes back for the next case. 
• Choice & connection. She likes feeling that her merges matter. If a choice nudges 
suspicion toward one character, or lets her reveal a hidden location, she feels her input 
shapes the narrative—even if the spine is fixed. 
• Style she can show off. Noir-flavoured art, quirky suspects, a bit of gallows humour in 
Ally’s dialogue—it’s aesthetic and clever, not gory. Danielle screenshots her board or 
suspect gallery to share in her true-crime Facebook group. 
• Respectful monetisation. She’s willing to pay for a season pass if it means smoother 
progression or early access to episodes, but would feel betrayed if the story was 
locked behind aggressive spend. Cosmetics, boosters, or bonus side-cases are fine—
blocking the main mystery is not. 
Research 
Research: Target Audience Data & Insights 
1. Merge & Puzzle Game Player Demographics: 
• Gender Skew: The merge genre audience is predominantly female. Industry data 
(from platforms like App Annie/Data.ai) consistently shows a 70-75% female player 
base for top titles like Merge Mansion, Gossip Harbor, and Lily’s Garden. 
• Age Range: The core demographic is adults aged 25-54, with a significant 
concentration in the 35-44 and 45-54 brackets. This aligns with your persona, 
Danielle (29), and expands to include a slightly older, highly engaged audience. 
• Session Length: Players typically engage in short, frequent sessions. Average playtime 
per session is 15-25 minutes, often during breaks, commutes, or in the evening. This 
validates the design goal for 20-30 minute satisfying sessions. 
• Monetization Tolerance: Players are accustomed to rewarded ads and small IAPs for 
convenience. However, they are highly sensitive to aggressive paywalls that block 
story progress. A significant portion (industry estimates suggest ~25% of monthly 
active users) are “dolphins” who will make occasional small purchases ($2-$10) if 
they feel respected. 
2. True Crime Podcast Listener Profile: 
• Audience Size & Growth: Over a third (34%) of Americans aged 18-49 listen to 
true crime podcasts regularly (Pew Research Center, 2023). The genre is a cornerstone 
of podcasting, indicating a massive, ready-made audience. 
• Listener Demographics: The true crime podcast audience is overwhelmingly female 
(approximately 73%) and highly educated, with a strong concentration of listeners 
holding a college degree or higher. This matches the profile of Danielle and the 
intended “mature, smart” theme of the game. 
• Engagement Level: True crime fans are not passive consumers; they are highly 
engaged. They actively discuss cases on social media (Reddit, Facebook groups, 
TikTok), research independently, and crave a sense of participation. This directly 
supports the core gameplay hook of letting the player “solve the case.” 
3. Mobile Gaming Market Trends (Relevant to AQM): 
• Demand for Narrative: A 2023 survey by Google Play found that 62% of mobile 
gamers say a good story is important in the games they choose to play. Players are 
increasingly seeking deeper, story-driven experiences beyond hyper-casual gameplay. 
• Discovery Channels: For narrative and puzzle games, social media (especially 
TikTok and Instagram Reels) and App Store featuring are the top discovery 
channels. Word-of-mouth and influencer recommendations are also highly influential 
for this demographic. 
• Monetization Model Acceptance: The hybrid model of rewarded ads + IAP is the 
industry standard. Data shows that offering an ad-removal IAP can increase player 
retention and LTV (Lifetime Value), as it caters to both ad-tolerant players and those 
who prefer an uninterrupted experience. 
4. Key Psychographic Insights: 
• “Time-Well-Spent” Motivation: Players in this niche are not just killing time; they are 
seeking a fulfilling activity that feels like a “time-well-spent” experience. They want to 
feel smart, engaged, and emotionally invested. 
• Frustration with “Cozy” Clichés: There is a verified audience segment that finds 
traditional “cozy” merge narratives (family dramas, farm restorations) to be shallow 
or repetitive. They are looking for themes with more grit, mystery, and stakes, which 
Ally Quinn directly provides. 
• Platform Preference: The target audience primarily games on iPhone devices, 
confirming the decision to prioritize iOS development and marketing. 
Habits & Media 
• Plays mobile puzzle games during commutes and late evenings; usually 20–30 min 
bursts. 
• Subscribes to Crime Junkie and Casefile podcasts; also watches Only Murders in the 
Building on streaming. 
• Scrolls TikTok and Instagram for true crime clips, unsolved mystery summaries, and 
puzzle game ads. 
• Plays Merge Mansion and Lily’s Garden, but finds them “too cosy” and wants 
something darker and smarter. 
Goals & Motivations 
• Wants to feel like a detective: piecing clues together, uncovering conspiracies. 
• Looks for quick play loops that respect her limited time but still deliver satisfying 
story beats. 
• Enjoys the aesthetic of noir and investigative drama—foggy streets, neon, secrets. 
• Prefers free-to-play but will spend on ad-removal or boosters if she’s hooked. 
Emotional Hook 
• Danielle plays because Echoes of Havenbay (Ally’s podcast) feels like she’s listening to 
her own favourite true-crime podcaster—but now she’s actively helping crack the 
cases. 
• She’s not just merging icons on a board; she’s exposing corruption in a fog-drenched 
city. 
Ideal Player Journey – Danielle 
Persona context: Danielle is a 34-year-old marketing manager who plays merge games 
casually but is deeply engaged with true-crime podcasts and communities. She seeks 
relaxation, narrative intrigue, and shareable moments. 
Onboarding & First Session 
• Danielle downloads Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge after seeing a UA ad highlighting the 
“unlock the podcast episode” hook. 
• In her first 5 minutes, she completes an intuitive merge tutorial that feels like piecing 
together an evidence kit, not just housekeeping. 
• The first board instantly ties into the narrative (dusting powder → fingerprint card → 
database match), leading directly to a suspect reveal. She feels clever, not taught. 
Core Loop Engagement 
• Danielle alternates between merging evidence and narrative progression. Each 
merge chain produces something meaningful (clue, photo, analysis) that visibly 
updates the case board. 
• Dialogue overlays keep her immersed without breaking play; Ally’s narration feels like 
snippets of a true-crime podcast in progress. 
• Energy allows for a solid 20–30 minutes per session, with ad-based or optional IAP 
extensions. She never feels forced out of the mystery. 
Emotional Payoff 
• Solving her first case unlocks a produced podcast episode. Danielle listens on her 
commute, treating it as a trophy and recap of her work. 
• She feels both rewarded and invested, anticipating the next episode drop as she would 
a podcast season cliffhanger. 
Progression & Retention 
• Each new case introduces a fresh suspect gallery and new merge trees. Twists and red 
herrings keep her speculating, mirroring her real-world habit of analysing true-crime 
forums. 
• A persistent Evidence Wall grows across episodes, hinting at the wider 
Ferryman/City Council conspiracy and tying cases together. 
• Danielle shares screenshots of her board and suspects in her true-crime Facebook 
group, spreading organic reach. 
Monetisation Touchpoints 
• Danielle engages with optional ads for extra energy when immersed in a case. 
• She sees value in a Season Pass that offers early access to podcast episodes, bonus 
side-cases, and light cosmetic boosts—without locking the main story. 
• She may make small purchases to support the experience she loves, but never feels 
pressured. 
Endgame & Ongoing Engagement 
• Danielle completes Season 1 feeling satisfied but hungry for more. 
• She is eager to begin Season 2, drawn in by unresolved conspiracy threads and teased 
suspects. 
• She values the ongoing cycle: play merges → influence investigation → unlock 
podcast → share & discuss → await next case. 
Goals & positioning 
Pre-Launch Marketing 
a) Branding 
• Company name & logo: modern, indie-friendly, trustworthy. 
• Game branding: Title card, icon (Ally silhouette + magnifying glass), noir pastel 
palette. 
• Website/landing page: simple, includes newsletter sign-up. 
b) Community Building 
• Socials: TikTok (short merge gameplay + crime facts), Instagram (character art, 
cases), Reddit (r/truecrime, r/gamedesign). 
• Podcast tie-in: create a mock “’Echoes of Havenbay” podcast trailer with voiceover for 
cross-promotion. 
• Discord/FB Group: “Solve cases together” — builds early superfans. 
c) Store Prep 
• App Store Optimization (ASO): 
– Keywords: “merge game”, “true crime game”, “mystery puzzle”, “detective 
merge”. 
– Screenshots: merge board, character dialogue, “Solve the Case!” tagline. 
– Video trailer: 20–30 sec (merge action → reveal clue → suspects → dramatic 
payoff). 
 
Soft Launch Strategy 
• Regions: Canada, Australia, UK (good test markets for both merge & true crime). 
• Duration: 6–8 weeks. 
• Goals: 
– CPI <$2.50 (Facebook/TikTok). 
– D1 Retention > 35%, D7 > 12%. 
– Monetization: $0.25 ARPDAU target. 
• Iterate on: 
– Energy tuning (Focus). 
– Ad placement frequency. 
– Narrative pacing (14-day case structure). 
 
User Acquisition (UA) 
a) Paid UA Channels 
• Meta (FB/Instagram): #1 for female merge audience; run creative variations. 
• TikTok Ads: merge-to-clue animations + “Who do you think did it?” polls. 
• Google UAC: scale after CPI stabilizes. 
b) Creative Angles 
• Merge-to-reveal clue (fingerprint merges → clue pops). 
• Suspect face-off: “You think she’s guilty?” (engagement poll). 
• True crime hook: “Based on real mysteries… can you solve it?” 
c) Influencer/Podcast Collabs 
• Micro true crime podcasters (10–50k listeners): sponsor an episode with Ally’s theme. 
• TikTok crimefluencers: reaction to game clips. 
 
Monetization & Retention 
• Core loop: Energy (Focus), IAP boosts, rewarded ads for progression. 
• Events: Weekly mini-cases, time-limited suspects. 
• LiveOps: Daily login streak (magnifying glass → gems), social competitions. 
• Whale path: Case packs (premium clues, faster unlock). 
 
Budget Breakdown (example <$100K) 
• Development: ~40% ($35–40k). 
• Art/UI outsourcing: ~20% ($15–20k). 
• UA (soft launch + first 3 months live): ~30% ($25–30k). 
• Marketing assets & misc: ~10% ($10k). 
 
KPIs & Growth 
• CPI (Cost per Install): <$2.50. 
• Retention: D1 >35%, D7 >12%, D30 >5%. 
• ARPDAU: $0.20–0.40 in early months, scaling with liveops. 
• ROAS (Return on Ad Spend): 100% breakeven at day 90 for sustainable UA. 
Positioning map 
Promotion 
App store listing 
Social media calendar 
Launch day campaign 
Pre-Registration Campaign Blueprint 
🎯 Campaign Goal 
• Maximise pre-orders (App Store) and pre-registrations (Google Play). 
• Create an early fan community around Ally as if she’s a real investigator/podcaster. 
• Drive a charting spike at launch to improve visibility and organic installs. 
 
🗓️ Campaign Timeline (90 days pre-launch → Launch Day) 
Phase 1: Tease (90–60 days before launch) 
• App/Play pages go live with cinematic screenshots, short teaser trailer, and “Coming 
Soon.” 
• Launch pre-reg ads (Meta, TikTok, YouTube shorts). Creative: a whispered voicemail, 
“I think I’m being followed…”, ending with “Pre-register to help Ally solve the case.” 
• Ally’s in-universe podcast Echoes of Havenbay releases 2 short teaser episodes 
(Spotify/Apple). 
Phase 2: Engage (60–30 days before launch) 
• Weekly case file drops on social (Instagram reels, TikTok). Example: Rain-streaked 
evidence photo → “Can you see the clue?” 
• Milestone Rewards Campaign (Google Play): 
– 10k pre-regs → Bonus Energy Pack 
– 25k → Exclusive Ally cosmetic (scarf, trench colour variant) 
– 50k → Limited “Founders Case” merge tree at launch 
• Introduce the Discord “Case Breakers” server where fans can debate suspects. 
Phase 3: Convert (30 days → Launch Day) 
• Paid UA spend intensifies. Playable ads: a mini merge puzzle with a cliffhanger (“Who’s 
lying? Tap to merge evidence”). 
• Influencer pushes: mid-tier true crime podcasters and YouTubers do “sponsored 
minisodes” with Ally voice lines. 
• App Store featuring pitch (Apple loves narrative-driven indies + unique genre blends). 
• Countdown campaign: “7 Days to Solve the Case” with daily suspect teasers. 
Launch Day 
• Social + email blast: Ally “publishes” her final podcast episode revealing the launch. 
• Auto-installs hit—CPI and retention data starts fuelling scale-up UA. 
• Livestream “Launch Mystery Night” on Twitch/YouTube with community Q&A. 
 
📦 Reward Design (Google Play pre-reg incentives) 
• 10k Pre-reg: 50 Gems (premium currency equivalent). 
• 25k Pre-reg: Ally’s Exclusive “Investigator Scarf” cosmetic. 
• 50k Pre-reg: Access to “The Vanishing Violin” case pack (limited-time merge chain). 
• 100k Pre-reg: All players get permanent podcast badge on their profile. 
 
🎨 Creative Beats 
• Ads should mimic crime doc trailers rather than “gameplay ads.” 
• Heavy use of rain, evidence photos, red-string suspect boards, and Ally’s 
voiceover diary logs. 
• UX-friendly: every ad ends with “Merge clues. Solve the truth. Pre-register now.” 
 
📈 Success Metrics 
• CPI: Target <$2 Tier 1, <$0.75 Tier 2. 
• CTR: 2–4% (for intrigue-style creatives). 
• Pre-reg Goal: 50k+ before launch. 
• Day-1 Installs: 70–80% conversion of pre-reg base. 
 
This way, pre-reg isn’t just a placeholder—it becomes an interactive mystery campaign 
that’s already playable in spirit before the app even drops. 
Do you want me to draft sample creatives (ad copy + visual storyboard concepts) for 
Phase 1 so you’ve got concrete material to test in soft launch? 
Positioning map 
To do 
• ☐ Roll out pre-launch campaign 
• ☐ Prepare discord posts 
• ☐ Contact gaming bloggers 
• ☐ Design launch day campaign 
• ☐ Analyze post launch survey results ## Marketing ToDo 
• ☐ Register Domain “AllyQuinn.com” 
• ☐ Start teaser promos on this domain 
Table element string placeholder 
Game Design Document 
Executive Summary 
Game Overview: 
 Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is a narrative-driven merge puzzle game for mobile (iOS & 
Android) that blends the addictive item-combination mechanics of merge games with a 
gritty true crime investigation storyline. Players take on the role of Ally Quinn – a 
determined detective – and solve cases by merging clues and tools on a puzzle board, 
unravelling a deep mystery over the course of the game. The tone is stylish and serious, 
presented in a semi-realistic cartoon art style that delivers a graphic-novel feel. 
Unique Selling Points: 
• Genre Innovation: The first mobile game to blend merge-puzzle mechanics with a 
serious true-crime narrative, targeting puzzle fans who crave mature storytelling. 
• Narrative Hook: Episodic “TV season” structure with each case resolving a mystery 
while feeding into an overarching conspiracy arc, optimised for mobile retention. 
• Market Gap: Positioned between cosy merge games (Merge Mansion) and text-heavy 
mysteries, appealing to under-served players who want puzzles with real stakes. 
• Art Direction: Semi-realistic, noir-inspired cartoon style that balances accessibility on 
mobile with distinctive, marketable visuals. 
• Monetisation Philosophy: Free-to-play with optional ads and cosmetic/convenience 
IAPs; no story paywalls, building long-term trust and retention. 
Platform & Engine: 
Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is developed with Unity 6, using the Universal Render 
Pipeline (URP) 2D for optimal performance and lighting effects. Target platforms are iOS 
and Android smartphones and tablets. The game is designed for free-to-play distribution, 
supported by in-app purchases (IAPs) and optional rewarded advertisements. As a solo-
developed indie project, the scope is carefully managed to ensure feasibility, with plans to 
leverage existing tools (Unity Asset Store, Firebase services, etc.) to streamline 
development. 
Monetisation & Market: 
The game will follow a player-friendly monetisation strategy: it’s free to download and 
play, with revenue from optional IAPs (such as resource packs or cosmetic upgrades) and 
rewarded ads (for bonus energy or clues). There are no paywalls in the story – all players 
can experience the full narrative – but monetisation offers convenience and customisation. 
The target audience includes fans of casual puzzle games and crime/mystery enthusiasts, 
primarily adults and young adults (ages ~16-35) given the serious crime themes. The 
combination of genres aims to capture a niche in the mobile market, similar to titles like 
Merge Mansion (merge & story) and narrative mystery games, but with a true crime spin 
that sets it apart. 
Production & Goal: 
This document serves as a comprehensive Game Design Document (GDD) outlining all 
aspects of the game’s design, from core gameplay loops and mechanics to story, art, audio, 
technical needs, and development plan. It will guide the solo developer through production 
and also present the concept clearly for potential partners or pitching opportunities. The 
ultimate goal is to create a polished, content-rich merge puzzle game that can be delivered 
by a solo indie developer on a reasonable timeline and achieve a sustainable player base 
through engaging gameplay and storytelling. 
High Level Concept 
Genre & Gameplay: 
Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is a merge-style puzzle game combined with narrative 
adventure elements. At its core, players merge matching items on a board to create new, 
higher-level items. These items often represent clues, tools, or pieces of evidence that are 
used to solve crime cases in the story. The game loop is easy to pick up but offers strategic 
depth through board management and planning merges. It’s a single-player experience 
with a linear story that unfolds as the player completes merging tasks and solves cases. 
Setting & Tone: 
The game is set in the rain-soaked, noir-inspired metropolis of Havenbay City. For a 
complete breakdown of the city’s districts, history, mood, and visual identity, see the 
Havenbay City Setting Guide. The tone is serious and suspenseful – akin to a true crime 
drama – executed in a semi-realistic cartoon art style. 
Story Summary: 
Players follow Ally Quinn, a licensed PI and podcaster, as she investigates a web of 
corruption and cold cases in Havenbay City, a journey deeply tied to her family’s past. The 
narrative is driven by a rich cast of characters, each with their own motives and 
connections. For the overarching plot, character bios, and relationship dynamics, see the 
Character Bible and Relationship Map. 
Core Appeal: 
The high-level appeal of True Crime Merge is the combination of mentally engaging 
puzzles with emotionally engaging story. Players not only get the reward of completing 
puzzles and collecting cool new items, but these actions directly feed into solving a 
mystery, giving them a sense of purpose beyond high scores. By merging clue items, the 
player feels like they are actively conducting the investigation – uncovering evidence piece 
by piece. This integration of mechanic and narrative is intended to increase player 
investment: every merge could reveal a new clue or story snippet, motivating the player to 
keep playing to “see what happens next.” It’s a design that leverages the habit-forming 
core loop of merge games (simple repeated actions with progressive rewards) and an 
overarching long-term goal of solving a complex crime (providing narrative payoff and 
closure). 
Comparables: 
To clarify the concept, Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge can be described as “Merge Mansion 
meets True Detective” or “Merge Dragons with a crime narrative.” In the market, the closest 
comparables are games like Merge Detective Story (which merges items to find clues in a 
mystery plot) and other narrative merge games, but True Crime Merge aims to push deeper 
into a serious, realistic crime narrative rather than cozy mysteries. This positions the game 
in a relatively underserved niche: merge puzzle fans who crave a mature, story-rich 
experience. 
 
Concept 
 
Image from Projects 

Merge clues. Solve cases. Expose the truth. 
Step into the shoes of Ally Quinn, a true-crime podcaster turned private investigator. In 
the rain-soaked streets of Havenbay City, every merge uncovers evidence, every clue 
unlocks a story, and every case brings you closer to exposing a conspiracy that took her 
father’s life. Stylish noir visuals, addictive merge puzzles, and a binge-worthy mystery 
combine to deliver a detective game you can’t put down. 
Sections 
Technical Overview 
Technical Overview 
In this section, we outline the technical considerations and tools for developing Ally Quinn: 
True Crime Merge. As a solo developer, choosing the right technology stack is critical for 
efficiency, performance, and scalability. We describe the game engine (Unity 6) usage, key 
plugins/SDKs (Firebase, Ads, IAP), and other technical components like version control and 
build pipeline. 
Game Engine: Unity 6 (with URP 2D) 
The game will be built in Unity 6 – assuming Unity 6 is the latest 2024/2025 edition of 
Unity (for context, Unity’s naming might be by year, but we’ll refer to it as version 6 for 
consistency with prompt). Unity is a robust, well-documented engine ideal for 2D mobile 
development. Key points: 
·       2D Development: We will use Unity’s dedicated 2D systems for this project. 
Specifically, we’ll utilize the Universal Render Pipeline (URP) with 2D Renderer. URP 2D 
provides optimized 2D lighting and materials for sprites. This allows us to have features 
like 2D lighting (for example, dynamic light and shadow effects in scenes) at low 
performance cost – enhancing the noir atmosphere. 
·       Platform Support: Unity’s build pipeline easily targets iOS and Android. We can 
maintain one codebase and deploy to both App Store and Google Play with minimal 
platform-specific changes. Unity 6 offers improved performance (IL2CPP backend, code 
optimizations) that we will leverage for smoother gameplay on older devices. 
·       Engine Features: We’ll use the new input system for responsive touch controls (drag 
and drop merging). Unity’s animation system (Timeline or simple Animators) for cutscene 
sequencing and UI animations. The physics engine might be lightly used if we want any fun 
item bounce effects, but mostly this is a UI-driven game. 
·       Rendering & Performance: The game is 2D, so performance is expected to be good on 
mobile. We will sprite atlas our item icons to reduce draw calls. URP’s 2D Renderer will 
handle lights/shadows efficiently – and we can tweak the quality for lower-end devices 
(e.g., disable fancy lighting if needed via quality settings). The resolution of assets will be 
chosen carefully (maybe 1080p targets) to avoid memory bloat. Unity 6 has improved 
memory management which is beneficial. 
·       Unity Services: We might integrate Unity Analytics (though possibly using Firebase for 
analytics), Unity Cloud Build to automate builds, and Unity’s Addressable Asset system to 
manage assets efficiently (maybe to enable remote asset updates if needed for events). 
Firebase Integration 
We plan to use Firebase (Google’s mobile/backend service suite) for several features: 
·       Analytics: Firebase Analytics will track player behavior (levels completed, merges 
made, story choices, session length, etc.). This data is important for balancing the game and 
understanding player drop-off points. It’s easy to implement with Unity via the Firebase 
SDK, and it provides a robust backend for events. 
·       Cloud Save: Using Firebase Authentication (with anonymous or Google/Apple sign-in) 
and Cloud Firestore/Realtime Database to store player progress in the cloud. This ensures 
that if a player changes device or reinstalls, they can recover progress (especially 
important with a long progression game). As a solo dev, leveraging Firebase’s ready-made 
infrastructure is easier than building a custom server. 
·       Remote Config: Firebase Remote Config can be used to tweak game parameters on the 
fly. For example, if analytics show a level is too hard (players not completing objective X), 
we could remotely adjust spawn rates or energy regen times without a full app update. It 
can also be used for A/B testing features or balancing changes. 
·       Notifications: Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) for push notifications. We’d like to send 
gentle reminders like “Your energy is refilled – continue the investigation!” or narrative-
driven ones like “Ally found a new clue, come see!” to re-engage players. Notifications will 
be used sparingly and configured to respect user opt-outs. 
·       Crash Reporting: Firebase Crashlytics helps catch and report any crashes or exceptions 
in the field. This is invaluable for a solo dev to quickly address issues especially on the wide 
range of Android hardware. 
The Firebase SDK will be added to the Unity project. We’ll ensure to keep it updated and 
only enable the features we use to avoid unnecessary bloat. 
Ads SDK 
Monetization via ads requires integrating an Ads SDK: 
·       We can use Unity Ads (Unity LevelPlay) which by Unity 6 might have even more 
integration (especially after Unity’s acquisition of ironSource). Unity Ads SDK allows easy 
implementation of rewarded video ads and possibly interstitials. 
·       Rewarded Ads: We will implement rewarded video placements at designed points (like 
for energy refills or bonus items). Using Unity Ads, it’s straightforward to call 
Advertisement.Show for a placement ID and handle the callback to reward the player. 
·       We’ll configure mediation if needed (Unity LevelPlay can mediate multiple ad 
networks to improve fill rates and revenue). 
·       Unity Ads covers both iOS and Android seamlessly and should be compliant with 
platform guidelines (we’ll ensure to follow Ad policy, such as not showing personalized ads 
to underage users, etc.). 
·       We will also consider AdMob mediation or IronSource SDK if Unity Ads alone doesn’t 
give good fill, but starting with Unity’s built-in is simplest. 
·       Banner/Interstitials: Currently plan is minimal use (maybe no banners at all to 
preserve UI integrity, and interstitial only at natural breaks like after completing a chapter, 
and even then possibly only for non-paying users). If implemented, ensure frequency 
capping and a polite prompt (like “watch an ad?” rather than forcing). 
·       The Ads SDK will be tested thoroughly, and fallback flows (if no ad available, player 
doesn’t get stuck waiting, etc.). 
In-App Purchases (IAP) 
We’ll use Unity IAP (In-App Purchasing) service to handle purchases on iOS and Android. 
Unity IAP simplifies dealing with App Store and Google Play store APIs with one code. 
·       Products include: coin packs, energy refills, maybe a “No Ads” one-time purchase, and 
possibly special bundles (like starter pack with some boosters). 
·       We’ll set up consumable IAPs (like currency, energy) and non-consumable (no-ads 
entitlement). Unity IAP will manage the receipts and we’ll verify them (Unity IAP can auto-
handle receipt validation; we may also use server-side verification through Firebase 
functions if security is a concern). 
·       Price points and product IDs will be configured in each store’s dashboard, and Unity 
IAP matched to those. 
·       Testing in sandbox (TestFlight for iOS, internal test for Google) will be done to ensure 
transactions work and grant items properly. 
Other Plugins and Tools 
·       Dialogue/Story Tools: To manage the narrative sequences, we might integrate a tool 
like Ink by Inkle or Fungus or Yarn Spinner for branching dialogue scripting. This can make 
implementing the story logic easier than coding dialogues by hand. For instance, Yarn 
Spinner is a dialogue system that works well with Unity for branching narratives. It’s 
optional, but could speed up narrative implementation. 
·       Merge Puzzle Logic: We might code the merge board from scratch (it’s essentially a 
grid and inventory management problem), but we’ll consider if there’s any asset store 
package or open-source snippet for merge games. However, being a core mechanic, custom 
implementation ensures we can tailor it to our needs (like linking merges to objectives). 
Unity’s C# will handle game state and merges. We’ll maintain a data structure for item 
types, their merge results, etc. – via scriptable objects defining each item’s properties and 
next item. 
·       Saving System: Player progress (items on board, completed objectives, story state) 
needs to be saved locally (PlayerPrefs or local JSON) in addition to cloud. We’ll implement a 
save routine each time something major changes, as well as periodic autosave. Using a 
structured approach (maybe JSON serialization of game state) to easily extend and debug. 
·       Version Control: As a solo dev, I will still use version control (Git with GitHub or GitLab 
for backup). This ensures no catastrophic loss of work and tracking of changes. It also 
allows branching if trying big new features. 
·       Continuous Integration/Deployment: Might not be heavy due to solo nature, but using 
Unity Cloud Build or GitHub Actions to automatically build and maybe run unit tests (if we 
implement any gameplay logic tests) could be helpful to catch errors early. 
·       Testing devices: We must test on a range of devices (low-end Android, high-end 
Android, various iPhone models) to ensure performance and UI scaling are good. Unity’s 
profiler will be used to optimize if any spikes (perhaps from many particle effects or too 
many update calls). 
·       TDD vs TDD: We won’t confuse Technical Design Document (TDD) with Test-Driven 
Development, but indeed the GDD (this doc) outlines lots, and separate technical 
documentation can detail class structures, state machines, etc. at a lower level. However, 
given scope, we keep the code architecture as simple as possible (e.g., a GameManager 
singleton for core states, separate managers for Puzzle, Dialogue, UI, etc., using Unity’s 
event messaging to communicate when needed). 
·       Scalability: If the game grows (content updates), we ensure the architecture supports 
adding new chapters easily (data-driven approach: e.g., cases defined in JSON or scriptable 
objects so adding a case is mostly data entry and asset addition, not engine code change). 
·       Third-Party Services: Besides Firebase and Ads, consider if we need: 
o   Crash reporting (covered by Firebase Crashlytics). 
o   Performance monitoring (Firebase Performance can do some of that). 
o   Attribution SDKs if marketing (maybe not in initial dev, but if we do user acquisition, 
something like Adjust or AppsFlyer might be needed to track installs). 
·       GDPR/Privacy: Using these services means we need a privacy policy and compliance 
with GDPR/CCPA. We’ll include a privacy prompt for personalized ads consent in 
applicable regions (Unity Ads can assist with that). Also offer option to erase data (if using 
Firebase, link to how user can request deletion). 
Technical Risks and Mitigation 
·       Memory Management: Merge games can theoretically have lots of items on board. We 
need to ensure the game handles, say, dozens of sprites without memory leaks. Using 
pooling for item objects (reuse GameObjects instead of destroying/creating frequently) will 
help maintain performance. 
·       Edge Cases: Ensure no lost progress if app is closed at awkward times (frequent saving, 
and test resume logic). Also handle connectivity issues gracefully (game should work 
offline for the most part, only needing internet for ads, IAP verification, and syncing saves, 
which can queue until connected). 
·       Unity Version Upgrades: Unity 6 being new, watch out for any engine bugs and keep 
track of patches. Possibly stick to a 6.x LTS version once stable, to avoid mid-project 
version instability. 
·       Solo Dev Complexity: Keep technical scope manageable – avoid trying to implement 
overly complex systems that aren’t necessary. E.g., don’t implement multiplayer or AR 
features that aren’t planned, etc. 
In conclusion, the technical approach leverages Unity for its strengths (rapid 2D 
development, multi-platform, robust community support) and Firebase/Unity services to 
cover backend needs without custom server development. This stack is fairly common in 
indie mobile games, meaning plenty of documentation and examples exist to assist if issues 
arise. As a result, the developer can focus on game content and polish rather than 
reinventing the wheel technically. 
Project & Development Toolkit 
 
Build (engine + architecture) 
• Unity 6.2 (6000.2.2f1) — Universal 2D + URP (2D Renderer) 
• C# domain-driven core (no UnityEngine deps), Ports & Adapters, Event Bus, 
Zenject/Extenject DI 
• UI Toolkit for HUD/menus, DoTween for micro-polish 
• Addressables + SpriteAtlas with a LocalDev profile (robust offline fallback; remote 
later) 
Performance & determinism (right-now toggles) 
• IL2CPP + ARM64 targets 
• Burst enabled for release builds (free headroom) 
• Incremental GC on 
(ECS/Entities deferred until profiling shows a real need.) 
Testing & CI (new) 
• Unity Test Framework (EditMode for domain, small PlayMode for adapters) 
• GitHub Actions: run EditMode+PlayMode on each PR (GameCI test runner) 
Analytics & telemetry (new abstraction) 
• IAnalytics interface 
– Default: Firebase Analytics + Crashlytics + Remote Config 
– Fallback: Unity Analytics behind a scripting define 
• Minimal FTUE events + crash breadcrumbs from day one 
Build, ship, distribute 
• Unity Cloud Build: Android AAB + iOS targets (Burst/IL2CPP on) 
• Google Play Internal / TestFlight pipelines wired to develop/tags 
• Keystore/App IDs set early 
Repo & project management 
• GitHub (LFS, protected main, feature branches), README/Docs 
• JIRA (Scrum/Kanban) + GitHub integration (smart commits, PR→Done) 
• MilaNote for merge trees, art refs, prompt library 
Art & UI pipeline (new polish path) 
• MidJourney for concepts → Inkscape (free) or Affinity Designer (one-off) for 
vector/UI cleanup 
• Unity 2D Sprite Editor (slicing) → SpriteAtlas 
• Optional: Aseprite for pixel work 
• Unity Particle System for clue reveals/evidence pops 
Audio (right-sized for the slice) 
• Unity AudioSource + Mixer for SFX/VO stubs 
(FMOD/Wwise only if you later need adaptive music/banks.) 
AI copilots 
• Copilot Pro in VS Code (inline + chat) 
• ChatGPT Plus for design/architecture/narrative 
• Gemini / Grok / DeepSeek / Claude (optional) as second opinions (verify APIs 
against docs) 
Long term goal architecture for Ally Quinn – 
Functional Game Architecture (High‑Reuse Design) 
Target: ≥70% reusable, engine‑agnostic modules; ≤30% glue/orchestration. 
Engine: Unity 6, 2D URP. 
Style: Ports & Adapters (Hexagonal), Event‑driven, Data‑driven content packs. 
 
1) Design Principles 
• Separation of Concerns: Core gameplay logic is pure C# (no UnityEngine 
dependencies). 
• Ports & Adapters: Domain defines interfaces (ports). Unity‑specific adapters conform 
to them. 
• Event‑Driven: Decoupled feature modules communicate via an in‑process message 
bus. 
• Data‑Driven Content: Items, recipes, cases, drop tables, store offers, and minigames 
configured via ScriptableObjects + JSON (remote). 
• Deterministic Core: Merge rules and reward calculations are deterministic and 
testable. 
• Dependency Injection (DI): Use Extenject/Zenject or a lightweight container. No 
Service Locator. 
• Versioned Content Packs: Addressables for “Season/Case Packs” with clear semver 
versions and migration. 
• Test First: Unit tests for all domain rules; playmode tests for adapters and glue. 
Outcome: Most code lives in reusable packages (domain + shared), with “glue” confined to 
composition roots and scene‑level orchestrators. 
 
2) High‑Level Module Map 
┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ 
│                               APPLICATION                             │ 
│   Scene/Flow Orchestrators (Glue), DI Composition Root, Installers    │ 
└───────────────▲──────────────────────────────▲──────────────────────────┘ 
                │                              │ 
        (Adapters into Unity)           (Adapters to Services) 
                │                              │ 
┌───────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ 
│                                 DOMAIN                                 │ 
│  Merge Engine  |  Narrative Engine  |  Economy  |  Progression         │ 
│  Inventory     |  Quest/Case System |  Minigame Framework | Telemetry  │ 
│  Save/Sync     |  Reward System     |  Time/Clock         | RNG        │ 
└───────────────▲───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ 
                │ Ports (Interfaces) 
┌───────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ 
│                             SHARED KERNEL                              │ 
│ Event Bus | Result Types | Error Model | Utilities | Data Schemas     │ 
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ 
Reuse expectation: DOMAIN + SHARED KERNEL = ~70–85% of total C# by SLOC. 
 
3) Shared Kernel (Reusable) 
Purpose: Cross‑cutting primitives used everywhere. 
• Event Bus (IEventBus): in‑process pub/sub with typed payloads and async support. 
• Result & Error Model: Result<T> with Success/Failure, error codes, and Try* 
patterns. 
• Time Abstraction: ITimeProvider (game time, wall clock, monotonic). 
• RNG Abstraction: IRandom with seed control for determinism. 
• Data Schemas: DTOs for items, recipes, rewards, progress, offers, case nodes. 
• Serialisation: ISerializer (JSON), versioned with migration hooks. 
• Config Access: IConfigRepo layered: Local SO → Remote JSON (feature flags, A/B). 
 
4) Domain Modules (Reusable) 
Each module is pure C# and communicates via ports & events. 
4.1 Merge Engine 
• Responsibilities: Merge grid state, adjacency, recipes, rarity, drops, timers. 
• Core Types: 
– MergeGrid / CellIndex 
– ItemId, ItemTier, RecipeId 
– MergeAction → MergeResult (immutable) 
• APIs: 
– TryMerge(ItemId a, ItemId b) -> Result<MergeResult> 
– SpawnPolicy.RequestSpawn(context) -> ItemId[] 
– CooldownService.Tick(dt) 
• Data‑Driven: ItemSO, RecipeSO, LootTableSO, CooldownSO. 
• Events: ItemAdded, ItemRemoved, MergePerformed, ChainCompleted. 
4.2 Inventory 
• Responsibilities: Owns player items across grid/storage; capacity, tags, filters. 
• APIs: Add, Remove, Query(predicate), GetCountsByTag(tag). 
• Events: InventoryChanged, CapacityUpgraded. 
4.3 Narrative Engine (Case/Story) 
• Responsibilities: Branching dialogue, clue gates, case states, outcomes. 
• Graph Model: Nodes (Dialogue, Choice, Check, SetFlag, End), edges with conditions. 
• State: StoryState (flags, variables, seen nodes, evidence unlocked). 
• APIs: Advance(nodeId, choiceId?) -> StoryDelta. 
• Integrations: Optional adapters to Ink/Yarn, but domain stays engine‑agnostic. 
• Events: StoryAdvanced, CaseStateChanged, EvidenceUnlocked. 
4.4 Minigame Framework 
• Responsibilities: Standard interface for pluggable minigames. 
• Interface: 
– IMinigame with lifecycle Initialise(spec), Start(), Abort(), Dispose() 
– OnCompleted(MinigameResult) event with a unified reward contract. 
• Spec Data: MinigameSpecSO (type, difficulty, target metrics, time limit, reward curve). 
• Host Contract: IMinigameHost handles pause/resume, input, and telemetry. 
4.5 Economy & Rewards 
• Responsibilities: Currencies, pricing rules, reward tables, sinks. 
• Unified Reward: RewardBundle { items[], currency[], boosts[], keys[] }. 
• Balance: Curves/tables loaded from config with seedable RNG. 
• Events: RewardGranted, CurrencyChanged. 
4.6 Progression & Meta 
• Responsibilities: XP/Level, questlines, dailies, streaks, achievements. 
• APIs: GrantXP(amount, source), EvaluateAchievements(context). 
• Events: LevelUp, QuestCompleted, StreakBroken/Continued. 
4.7 Save/Sync 
• Responsibilities: Snapshot/restore, conflict resolution, schema migration. 
• APIs: Save() -> SaveBlob, Load(SaveBlob), Migrate(from,to). 
• Storage Ports: ILocalStore, ICloudStore. 
4.8 Telemetry & Experiments 
• Responsibilities: Emit gameplay events; A/B flags; remote config. 
• Ports: IAnalytics, IRemoteConfig, IExperimentService (bucketing). 
 
5) Adapters (Unity/Service‑Specific, Reusable by Project) 
• Unity UI Adapter: MVVM bindings; presenters observe domain events and update UI. 
• Input Adapter: Map device input → domain commands (no Input usage in domain). 
• Audio Adapter: IAudioBus from domain cues → Addressable clips, mixer routing. 
• Storage Adapters: PlayerPrefs/File → ILocalStore; Firebase/PlayFab → 
ICloudStore. 
• Analytics Adapters: Unity Analytics, Game Analytics, Firebase Analytics. 
• Remote Config: Unity RC or Firebase RC → IRemoteConfig. 
• Addressables Loader: Content pack discovery, dependency checks, hotfix versions. 
Adapters depend on Unity; domain never depends on adapters. 
 
6) Application Layer (Glue) 
Where the 15–30% “glue” lives. 
• Composition Root: Scene‑independent installers that bind interfaces to adapters (per 
platform or build flavour). 
• Flow Orchestrators: 
– BootFlow: cold start → content preflight → save load → DI warm‑up. 
– CaseFlow: drives the loop between Merge, Narrative, Minigames, Rewards. 
– StoreFlow: opens store, requests offers, handles purchase callbacks. 
• UI Screens: ViewModels subscribe to domain events; minimal logic (no rules here). 
• Minigame Host: Loads minigame prefab/scene (Addressables), injects 
IMinigameHost. 
• Offer Trigger Glue: listens to StoryAdvanced, LevelUp, ChainCompleted and asks 
Economy for contextual offers. 
 
7) Data‑Driven Content 
7.1 ScriptableObjects (authoring‑time) 
• ItemSO: id, tier, tags, sprite, rarity, sell value. 
• RecipeSO: input ids, outputs, success chance, cooldown, VFX/SFX keys. 
• MinigameSpecSO: type, difficulty, tuning params, reward curve id. 
• CaseSO: entry points, node refs, unlock conditions, rewards. 
• OfferSO: pack contents, price tier, eligibility rules. 
7.2 Remote JSON (runtime overrides) 
• Balance tweaks, drop rates, offer eligibility, experiment flags. 
• Implement Schema Version and migration in Save/Sync. 
7.3 Addressable Content Packs 
• Pack = SO assets + localisations + art + audio + minigame prefabs. 
• Naming: CasePack_S1_Ep01_v1.3.0 with dependency manifest. 
 
8) Event Catalogue (Domain‑Level Topics) 
• MergePerformed { a, b, result } 
• ChainCompleted { chainId, tier, reward } 
• InventoryChanged { delta[] } 
• StoryAdvanced { nodeId, choices, flagsDelta } 
• EvidenceUnlocked { evidenceId } 
• MinigameCompleted { minigameId, score, grade, rewardBundle } 
• RewardGranted { bundle } 
• CurrencyChanged { currencyId, delta } 
• LevelUp { from, to } 
• QuestCompleted { questId } 
Guideline: Events are immutable records; do not carry references to Unity objects. 
 
9) UI Architecture (Reusable Patterns) 
• MVVM: View = Unity scene/prefab; ViewModel = C# class listening to events; Model = 
domain. 
• Binding: One‑way data flow; ViewModels push commands to domain via ports. 
• Theming: UI components read style tokens (ScriptableObject theme) for reuse across 
titles. 
 
10) Minigame Plugin Architecture 
• Interface: 
  public interface IMinigame { 
    void Initialise(MinigameSpec spec, IMinigameHost host); 
    void Start(); 
    void Abort(); 
    void Dispose(); 
    event Action<MinigameResult> Completed; 
} 
• Result Contract: 
  public record MinigameResult(int Score, Grade Grade, RewardBundle 
Rewards); 
• Hosting: Addressables load IMinigame prefab; DI injects dependencies; on 
completion, domain Economy validates RewardBundle and emits RewardGranted. 
• Benefit: Any new minigame (Lie Detection, Forensic Match, Code Breaker) slots in 
without touching core systems. 
 
11) Persistence & Migration 
• Save domain state only (no Unity instance IDs). Snapshot via DTOs. 
• Versioned save with Migrate(vOld, vNew) pipeline. Keep migration code next to 
schemas. 
• Conflict policy: last‑writer‑wins for soft data; merge strategies for 
currencies/inventory. 
 
12) Testing Strategy 
• Unit Tests (EditMode): Merge rules, loot math, reward validation, narrative gating. 
• Property‑Based Tests: Fuzz recipes and loot tables against invariants. 
• PlayMode Tests: Adapters, Addressables loading, minigame lifecycle. 
• Simulation Harness: Headless run of merge sessions to detect balance regressions. 
 
13) Folder & Package Layout 
/Packages 
  /AQ.SharedKernel 
  /AQ.Domain.Merge 
  /AQ.Domain.Inventory 
  /AQ.Domain.Narrative 
  /AQ.Domain.Minigames 
  /AQ.Domain.Economy 
  /AQ.Domain.Progression 
  /AQ.Domain.Save 
  /AQ.Domain.Telemetry 
  /AQ.Adapters.UnityUI 
  /AQ.Adapters.Storage 
  /AQ.Adapters.Analytics 
  /AQ.Adapters.RemoteConfig 
  /AQ.Application (glue) 
/Assets 
  /Addressables 
    /CasePacks 
    /Minigames 
    /UIThemes 
  /ScriptableObjects 
  /Scenes 
  /Installers 
/Tests 
  /EditMode 
  /PlayMode 
  /Simulation 
 
14) Example End‑to‑End Flow (Merge → Evidence → Story → Offer) 
1. Player merges Dusting Powder + Fingerprint Card. 
2. Merge Engine validates recipe → emits MergePerformed and maybe ChainCompleted. 
3. Inventory updates → emits InventoryChanged. 
4. Narrative Engine listening for EvidenceUnlocked conditions sees the new item 
satisfies a gate → emits EvidenceUnlocked → StoryAdvanced. 
5. Economy listens to StoryAdvanced and ChainCompleted; eligibility rules trigger an 
offer (Addressable store prefab) → orchestrator opens Store. 
6. Telemetry logs each event with experiment tags. 
Glue code is merely the orchestrator subscribing to events and opening/closing screens. 
 
15) Reuse Budget & KPI (How We Hit ≥70%) 
• Domain packages (sections 3–4) target ~65–75% of total SLOC. 
• Adapters (section 5) target ~10–20%. 
• Application glue (section 6) target ~15–25%. 
KPI: 
• Domain assemblies compile in a .NET test runner (no Unity refs). 
• 90% of gameplay logic covered by unit tests. 
• New minigame added without changing domain code. 
• New “Case Pack” added without code changes beyond content registrations. 
 
16) Build Variants & Feature Flags 
• Dev, Staging, Prod DI bindings. 
• Feature flags: enable/disable minigames, tuning swaps, A/B offer flows. 
• Safe rollout via remote config with guardrails in domain (e.g., reward capping). 
 
17) Performance Notes (2D URP) 
• Keep domain ticks light; defer heavy work to frames where needed. 
• Batch UI updates via ViewModel diffing. 
• Avoid per‑frame allocations in adapters; use object pools for view objects. 
• Use Addressables groups with proper labels for memory budget. 
 
18) Security & Cheating Considerations 
• Server‑authoritative checks for premium currencies and purchases (if backend 
present). 
• Obfuscate local save; sign snapshots; validate reward claims. 
• Analytics sanity checks to detect impossible states. 
 
19) Migration Path for Future Titles 
• Keep AQ.Domain* and AQ.SharedKernel names neutral so they port to non‑merge 
puzzle titles. 
• Narrative, Economy, Telemetry, Save all portable; replace Merge with other core 
mechanic engines. 
 
20) Immediate Action Plan 
1. Create SharedKernel and Merge Engine packages with tests. 
2. Implement Event Bus, Result<T>, RNG/Time abstractions. 
3. Author initial ScriptableObjects for the Fingerprint merge tree. 
4. Build Minigame Host with a sample minigame (Code Breaker) via the plugin 
interface. 
5. Wire CaseFlow Orchestrator that listens to domain events and opens screens. 
6. Add Telemetry Adapter and minimal Remote Config. 
7. Ship CasePack S1E01 as Addressables; validate save/load + migration v1→v2. 
 
21) Example Interfaces (Sketch) 
public interface IEventBus { 
    IDisposable Subscribe<T>(Action<T> handler); 
    void Publish<T>(T evt); 
} 
 
public interface IConfigRepo { 
    T Get<T>(string key, T @default); 
    IObservable<ConfigChanged> Changes { get; } 
} 
 
public interface IMergeEngine { 
    Result<MergeResult> TryMerge(CellIndex a, CellIndex b); 
    IObservable<ItemAdded> ItemAdded { get; } 
} 
 
public record RewardBundle( 
    IReadOnlyList<ItemId> Items, 
    IReadOnlyList<CurrencyDelta> Currencies, 
    IReadOnlyList<BoostId> Boosts); 
 
22) What Counts as “Glue” (and stays small) 
• Scene composition (binding ports to adapters). 
• ViewModel creation and screen switching. 
• Translating domain events into UI animations/audio. 
• Orchestrating cross‑module flows without adding rules. 
Everything else (rules, calculations, gating, validation) lives in reusable domain code. 
 
23) Risks & Mitigations 
• Risk: Adapters leak Unity types into domain. 
– Mitigation: Editor compile check for using UnityEngine in domain assemblies; 
CI gate. 
• Risk: Event spaghetti. 
– Mitigation: Typed events, narrow topics, and flow orchestrators; event tracing 
in dev builds. 
• Risk: Content/schema drift. 
– Mitigation: Schema versioning, migration tests, content validators in CI. 
Core Gameplay & Mechanics 
Gameplay 
Core Gameplay Loop and Meta Loop 
The design of Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is built around a compelling core gameplay 
loop that feeds into a broader meta-progression loop. This section details both loops and 
how they keep players engaged in both short sessions and over the long term. 
Core Gameplay Loop 
At the heart of the game is the cycle of merging items to obtain clues and using those 
clues to progress. The core loop can be summarized in a play-get-upgrade-repeat 
pattern common to many successful mobile games: 
Figure: Core gameplay loop. The player plays by merging items on the puzzle board, gets 
rewards (clue items or resources) from successful merges, uses those to complete objectives 
(solving a task or uncovering a clue), and then repeats with new or more difficult merge 
tasks. This loop continuously provides a sense of progression and reward, encouraging 
repeated play. 
1.      Play (Merge Puzzle): The player engages with the merge board by combining 
identical items. They drag and drop items to merge them, creating higher-tier items. This is 
the primary action phase where the puzzle gameplay happens. It can range from a few 
quick merges (in a short session) to longer, planned sequences of merges to reach a specific 
item. The merging action is simple but satisfying, providing intrinsic fun through spatial 
organization and pattern recognition (e.g., spotting which items to combine). Example: The 
player has two “Fingerprint Fragment” items – by merging them, they create a “Complete 
Fingerprint” item which might be a needed clue. 
2.      Get Rewards (Clues/Resources): Every merge has an outcome that rewards the 
player. Minor merges yield intermediate items or basic resources (like coins or energy 
bonuses), while completing a key merge yields a clue item or tool needed for the 
investigation. These serve as resources in the context of the game’s progression. The 
reward phase triggers positive feedback – animations, sound effects, possibly a short 
character dialogue if a clue is found – giving the player a dopamine hit that reinforces the 
merging behavior. Rewards might also include experience points (if a player leveling 
system is used) or collectibles for achievements. 
3.      Complete Objective (Use Clue/Advance): The higher-level items produced by 
merging are usually tied to an objective or task. In the context of the story, an objective 
might be “Analyze the fingerprint” or “Open the evidence box,” which requires a certain 
item (e.g., a fingerprint match or a crowbar tool). Once the player has merged the required 
item, they can complete the task. Completing objectives typically triggers narrative 
progression (a new clue revealed, a story scene plays out) and grants a larger reward (such 
as unlocking the next puzzle board section or a burst of coins). This is the resolution phase 
of the loop where the player’s actions clearly impact the game state – the case moves 
forward. Importantly, completing one objective often leads to new objectives, which 
means new merging challenges. 
4.      Repeat with New Challenge: After an objective is completed, the game presents the 
next goal. This could be a new required item (often of higher tier, introducing a new 
merging challenge) or a new set of items unlocked on the board. The key is that the 
outcome of the previous loop feeds into the next loop, maintaining continuity. For 
example, uncovering a new clue might unlock a new area of the board with different item 
types, or a new “generator” item that produces base components for merges. The player 
now has a fresh challenge and starts merging again, entering the next cycle of the core loop. 
This core loop is designed to be fast and repeatable. A single cycle (merge -> get item -> 
use item -> next goal) can take a short time (a minute or two for simple tasks) or longer for 
complex goals, but always provides a clear payoff. The continuous cycle of action -> reward 
-> progress keeps players engaged and encourages habitual play. As noted in game design 
analyses, a strong core loop generates repeat engagement by constantly rewarding the 
player and setting up the next goal. Ally Quinn’s loop ensures that each merge and each clue 
feels meaningful in making progress on the case, which merges the fun of puzzles with the 
motivation of narrative discovery. 
Meta-Game Loop (Progression Loop) 
Surrounding the core merge-play is the meta-game loop that represents the long-term 
progression and retention mechanics. While the core loop handles moment-to-moment 
gameplay, the meta loop gives players a sense of growth and future goals beyond the 
immediate task. In True Crime Merge, the meta loop is largely driven by case completion, 
story chapters, and player progression: 
1.      Solve Case / Complete Chapter: On the macro level, the player’s objective is to solve 
entire cases (each case being a chapter of the story). A case might consist of dozens of 
merge tasks (core loops) culminating in identifying the culprit or resolving the crime. When 
a case is solved (e.g., the missing person is found, or the murderer is identified in that 
chapter’s storyline), the player achieves a major milestone. This provides a narrative 
climax (satisfaction of closure) and a gameplay milestone (often unlocking new features). 
Finishing a case yields significant rewards such as a large coin reward, a special unique 
item or permanent upgrade, and unlocks the next case/chapter of the story. 
2.      Upgrade & Unlock New Content: As part of the meta progression, players gain meta-
currency and experience that allow them to upgrade certain aspects of gameplay. For 
example, the player might upgrade Ally’s detective tools or skills: perhaps an “Analysis 
Kit” that can increase drop rates of certain items, or an ability that gives a hint about which 
merges to focus on. Alternatively (or additionally), the game can feature an upgradeable 
home base (like Ally’s detective office) or a research board – something the player can 
improve using resources earned, which provides tangible benefits (e.g., expanding the 
board size, unlocking new item types, increasing the energy cap, etc.). These upgrades give 
a sense of growth and make subsequent core loops easier or more varied, tying back into 
the loop (as per the classic play -> get -> upgrade -> repeat model where upgrades feed back 
into more effective play). 
3.      Story Progression & New Chapters: The meta loop incorporates the narrative 
progression. Unlocking the next story chapter or case serves as a major motivator in the 
meta-game. After completing one case, the next case (with a new location, new suspect, 
perhaps a new type of merge puzzle twist) becomes available. This keeps long-term 
engagement by providing new content and context. Each chapter introduces fresh elements 
– e.g. new item trees related to that scenario (a case involving a crime scene at a laboratory 
might introduce chemicals or lab equipment items to merge). Thus, the meta loop 
introduces variety over time so the gameplay doesn’t stagnate. 
4.      Resource Management (Energy and Currency): Like many F2P mobile games, a 
light energy system is part of the meta loop to regulate session length. For example, 
performing certain actions (like activating an item generator on the board to spawn new 
base items) may consume “Energy” (represented as lightning bolts). Energy regenerates 
over time or can be refilled via rewarded ads or IAP. This mechanic encourages players to 
return after breaks (for refilled energy) and also provides monetization touchpoints. 
However, we will carefully tune this system to avoid frustration – learning from similar 
games. (Players of Merge Detective Story, for instance, complained about having to wait 
hours or days for items due to limited generators and energy. In our design, we plan to 
provide multiple generators and parallel tasks so that the player isn’t stuck on a single 
long wait. The energy system will be balanced to allow meaningful play sessions without 
spending, while offering options to extend play for those who wish to.) 
5.      Daily Tasks and Retention Mechanics: The meta loop also includes daily challenges 
or quests (e.g., “Merge 20 items today” or “Complete a bonus mini-case”) and possibly 
events. These provide short-term goals that reset regularly, giving returning players 
rewards and a reason to log in each day. A daily reward system (login bonus) further 
incentivizes regular play. Over time, players might also see limited-time events (like a 
special case or puzzle that is only available for a week, offering unique story side-missions 
or cosmetic rewards). 
6.      Repeat & Expand: The long-term loop is essentially: complete a story chapter -> 
unlock new chapter/content -> improve abilities -> tackle next chapter. This repeats for each 
major case in the game. After finishing all planned story chapters, the loop can continue 
through live ops content (new cases added in updates) or an endless mode if appropriate. 
The design thus supports extended engagement, where players who finish the launch 
content have reasons to stay and anticipate future updates (new mysteries or seasonal 
events). 
In summary, the meta-game loop ensures that the player always has a goal on the horizon, 
beyond the immediate puzzle in front of them. It ties together the sequence of core loops 
(merge puzzles) into a larger journey of Ally Quinn’s career and the overarching mystery. 
By combining the compelling micro-level loop of merging with macro-level progression 
(story advancement, character/tools upgrades, new content unlocks), True Crime Merge 
aims to achieve both good short-term retention (players stick around in a session because 
the core loop is fun and rewarding) and long-term retention (players come back every day 
and week to see the story unfold and grow their capabilities). This dual-loop design is 
critical in free-to-play: core loop drives engagement and fun, while meta loop drives 
retention and monetization in a natural, player-friendly way. 
Mechanics 
Merge Mechanics and Item Trees 
The merge mechanic is the central gameplay system of Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge. This 
section details how merging works, the design of item “trees” (the sequences of items 
created via merging), and how these tie into objectives and story. 
Merge Rules and Gameplay 
At its simplest, the merge mechanic follows classic merge puzzle rules: combining 
identical items produces a higher-tier item. The player is presented with a board (a grid 
or freeform space) containing various items. When two (or more) of the same item are 
adjacent or dragged together, they merge into a new item of the next level. Key rules and 
features include: 
·       Identical Item Combination: The player must merge items of the same type. For 
example, two “Paper Scraps” merge to form a “Document Piece.” Typically, merging is done 
by dragging one item onto another. Some merges might require 3 of the same item 
combined (a 3-merge) depending on design, but to keep it straightforward, we will mostly 
use 2-item merges for a consistent flow, unless a special item calls for a bigger merge. 
·       Item Evolution (Upgrades): Each base item type has an evolution chain (item tree) 
that represents its upgraded forms. For instance, a simple chain might be: Fingerprint Dust 
→ Partial Fingerprint → Clear Fingerprint → Matched Fingerprint. Lower-tier items are 
often common and easy to obtain, whereas higher-tier items are rare and often tied to story 
breakthroughs. This process of upgrading by merging fuels the player’s sense of discovery 
and progress: seeing items evolve from mundane to meaningful provides a strong sense of 
achievement. 
·       Board Management: The play area (merge board) has limited space. This means 
players must strategize how to arrange items and when to merge. If the board is full, no 
new items can appear, so the player must consolidate items by merging or use the trash (if 
we allow discarding items) to clear space. This limitation introduces a puzzle element of 
spatial management – efficient use of space and smart planning (not merging too early, 
etc.) can make a big difference in progression. It also creates moments of challenge when 
the board is cluttered, prompting the player to think ahead. 
·       Item Generation and Harvesting: Items can appear on the board in various ways. 
Commonly, merge games use generator items – items that, when tapped, spawn basic 
items (usually at the cost of an energy point or a cooldown). For example, a “Toolbox” 
might generate screws or parts, or a “Files Cabinet” might generate paper scraps. In our 
game, these generators are themed to the story (e.g., a Forensics Kit spawns evidence 
pieces, a Toolbox spawns tools, a Computer spawns data clues, etc.). Generators often can be 
merged/upgraded themselves to produce higher-level base items. They typically have 
limited charges (uses) before they need time to recharge or the player must wait/refill 
energy. Managing multiple generators and their outputs is key to progress. 
·       Objectives and Target Items: The game guides the player with specific objectives that 
require certain items. For example, an objective might say “Find the Murder Weapon (Level 
6 Knife)”. The player’s task is then to merge lower-level knife pieces up to a level 6 Knife. 
Objectives provide direction and purpose to the merging; rather than merging aimlessly, 
the player knows what end-goal item they need. The UI will likely highlight or list the 
required item (and maybe show a silhouette or hint of how to get it if the player taps it). 
Completing objectives yields rewards and moves the story forward, as described earlier. 
·       Inventory/Storage: If space permits within scope, we may allow a limited inventory or 
storage box where players can stash a few items off-board. This would help manage space 
and save key items for later. Using storage effectively would be part of advanced strategy. 
(For example, if the player creates a high-level item that isn’t immediately needed, they 
could store it to free board space until it’s required.) 
·       Random and Premium Items: Once in a while, random item drops (like a “mystery 
crate”) might appear, which when merged or opened gives a surprise item. Also, premium 
consumable items (purchasable or rare rewards) could be used, such as a Merge Booster 
that instantly upgrades an item one level, or a Board Clear that clears low-level clutter. 
These tie into monetization but also are part of mechanics available to the player for 
difficult situations. 
In summary, the merging gameplay revolves around strategic combination and space 
management: the player juggles generating items, merging them into more useful forms, 
and doing so within the spatial constraints of the board while chasing specific goal items. 
Item Trees and Progression 
“Item trees” describe the hierarchy of items that can be formed by merging. Each tree starts 
with basic components and culminates in a high-level item, often one that is required to 
complete a critical objective or case. We design item trees to fit the narrative themes and to 
ensure a satisfying progression curve (each merge feels like a step toward something more 
significant). 
Structure of Item Trees: Typically, an item tree might have 5–10 levels. Level 1 is a base 
item (common, appears frequently via generators). Each subsequent level is obtained by 
merging two (or more) of the previous level. The highest level item in a tree is usually 
something rare and story-significant (e.g., a fully solved clue or a key piece of evidence). 
·       Example Tree – “Clue Fragments”: Level 1: Scrap of Paper (a torn note piece). Level 2: 
Partial Note (two scraps merged). Level 3: Reconstructed Note (the full note, which 
might reveal a hidden message). Level 4: Decoded Message (after merging with a 
decryption key perhaps, or merging two notes to get a combined clue). This chain could 
represent piecing together a written clue. The final item might be used in a story scene 
where Ally reads the full message revealing a motive. 
·       Example Tree – “Forensic Evidence”: Level 1: Fingerprint Dust (collected from a 
surface). Level 2: Partial Fingerprint. Level 3: Clear Fingerprint. Level 4: Fingerprint 
Match (matched to a suspect in the database). In this tree, the final item (Fingerprint 
Match) would directly point to a suspect and thus is a pivotal clue to solve the case. 
·       Example Tree – “Tool / Utility”: Level 1: Old Key (rusty key bits). Level 2: Cleaned Key 
(usable key). Level 3: Master Key (perhaps opens something important). Or another: Level 
1: Wire + Level 1: Battery (these might merge into a Level 2: Taser if the puzzle calls for 
assembling a tool). We can have some trees where different base item types merge 
together (that is an advanced mechanic – fusion of two different items, e.g., combining a 
tool and a part to make a gadget). 
Each case/chapter will introduce its own set of item trees relevant to the scenario. For 
instance, a chapter set in a forensic lab might have a chemical analysis tree (mixing 
reagents), whereas a chapter about cyber crime might have a data decryption tree 
(assembling data drives). 
Diagram: Example of a simplified item merge chain (item tree). Multiple smaller components 
combine into higher-level evidence. For example, several “Clue Fragment” items can merge 
into a “Clue Piece”, and a couple of those merge into a “Key Evidence” item. This illustrates 
how low-level items progress through merges to become critical clues. 
The item tree design will follow these principles: 
·       Thematic Consistency: Items and their merges should make logical sense in the crime 
investigation context. If the player merges to create a “Blood Sample” and then a “DNA 
Profile,” it feels coherent with real detective work. This enhances immersion – the 
mechanics echo the fantasy of being a detective piecing together evidence. 
·       Difficulty Curve: Lower level merges (levels 1→2→3) should be easy and frequent, 
while higher level merges (towards level 8–10) become exponentially rarer or more 
challenging. This provides a built-in difficulty and reward curve; reaching that top-tier item 
feels like a significant accomplishment. We will calibrate the number of base items needed 
to ultimately get a high item (for example, if combining 2 of each previous level, then 
getting a level 5 item might require 16 level-1 items in total, etc.). The design will ensure 
that objectives are paced so the player isn’t required to grind absurd amounts for a single 
item unless that’s tied to long-term goals. 
·       Multiple Concurrent Trees: At any given time, the board can contain items from 
different trees. For variety, players might not just be working on one chain; there could be 
parallel objectives requiring different item types. For example, the player might need to 
both assemble a tool (one item tree) and decipher a code (another item tree) for a single 
case. This concurrency lets players switch focus if one chain is temporarily stalled (maybe 
waiting on a generator cooldown). It addresses monotony and the waiting issue by giving 
the player something else to do meanwhile. 
·       Item Discovery and Catalog: We’ll include an in-game item journal or evidence board 
that logs all items the player has discovered and their connections. This acts as both a 
progress tracker and a collector’s feature. It’s satisfying for players to see their collection of 
items grow. It can also serve as a hint system: if an item tree has unknown entries (e.g., 
“???” for level 5 item until you first create it), the journal teases players to find out what 
that item is. Once discovered, it could show a description (flavor text tying it to story) and 
perhaps the merge recipe. 
·       Special Items: Some merges might not be linear upgrades but produce a usable 
consumable or a key story item. For instance, merging certain chemicals might produce a 
Smoke Bomb that isn’t an “upgrade” per se but could be used in a particular story event or 
as a power-up. These special cases will be clearly communicated so players know the 
purpose of what they are merging. 
·       Failure and Reset Conditions: Merge games typically don’t have fail states in puzzles 
(you can always keep merging eventually), but if the board is full and no merges are 
available, that’s a losing condition of sorts. To mitigate that, we allow trashing items or use 
of a special “clear” power-up. If an objective is time-limited (probably not in the main game, 
but maybe in a challenge mode), failing to complete in time could be a fail condition. 
Generally, though, the merging is a relaxing, untimed puzzle; the challenge is resource 
management rather than quick reflexes. 
By carefully designing the item trees and their relation to objectives, we ensure that the 
merge mechanics are deep and engaging. Each merge is both a mini-reward and a step 
toward a larger goal. The interplay of multiple item trees with the narrative (clues, 
evidence types corresponding to story beats) will make the act of merging feel 
meaningfully connected to the role of a detective. 
In terms of content, we will create a broad catalog of items across different categories: 
·       Evidence Items: fingerprints, documents, photos, tapes, hair samples, fibers, etc. 
·       Tools & Equipment: lockpicks, crowbars, forensic kits, first aid (some cases might 
need treating someone), etc. 
·       Personal Items: keys, wallets, phones (to hack or investigate), etc. 
·       Misc Story Items: heirlooms, artifacts, etc. unique to specific cases. 
Each of these will have an evolutionary chain. For balancing, we’ll define drop rates and 
appearances so that the game always gives the player the pieces they need with reasonable 
frequency (and optional paths to speed up via boosters if desired). The Appendix of this 
document can contain a preliminary list of all item trees with their levels and descriptions 
(this would be iterated during development and balancing). 
    Investigative Item Trees 
1. Season 1 core pool of item trees for Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge. These 15 trees 
blend investigative depth, lifestyle intrigue, and environmental flavor, giving you 
a sustainable content base across 3 cases (each ~14 days of play). 
 
  ###     Core Investigative Trees (anchor mechanics) 
1. Forensic Tools Tree 
• Cotton Swab → Evidence Bag → Fingerprint Kit → UV Light → Full 
Forensic Case 
2. Photography Tree 
• Disposable Camera → Polaroids → Digital Camera → DSLR → Crime 
Scene Photo Board 
3. Clue Analysis Tree 
• Post-It → Bulletin Board → Red String Wall → Digital Tablet → 
Interactive Case Wall 
4. Fingerprint Evidence Tree 
• Dusting Powder → Fingerprint Card → Labeled Prints → Digital Scanner 
→ Database Match 
5. DNA Analysis Tree 
• Hair Strand → Test Tube → Gel Electrophoresis → DNA Profile → Lab 
Report 
 
  ###        Lifestyle & Scandal Trees (flavor + intrigue) 
1. Luxury Lifestyle Tree 
• Nail Polish → Perfume → Designer Shoes → Diamond Necklace → 
Jewelry Safe 
2. Luxury Drinks Tree 
• Soda Can → Wine Glass → Champagne Bottle → Cocktail Tray → VIP Bar 
Set 
3. Tabloid Gossip Tree 
• Rumor Scrap → Gossip Column → Paparazzi Photo → Tabloid Front Page 
Scandal 
4. Blackmail Materials Tree 
• Polaroid → Confidential Letter → Hidden USB Drive → Photo Envelope → 
Blackmail Package 
5. Alibi Evidence Tree 
– Movie Ticket → Restaurant Receipt → Credit Card Statement → CCTV Tape → 
Signed Affidavit 
 
  ###                Environmental & Setting Trees (world-building) 
1. Crime Scene Barriers Tree 
– Rope → Wooden Barrier → Police Tape → Floodlights → Mobile Command Post 
1. Havenbay Café Tree 
– Paper Cup → Coffee Mug → To-Go Box → Espresso Machine → Café Countertop 
1. Dockside Evidence Tree 
– Fishing Net → Empty Crate → Rusty Anchor → Smuggler’s Chest → Contraband 
Cache 
1. Nightlife Tree 
– Matchbook → Neon Sign → Club Flyer → VIP Wristband → Nightclub Ledger 
1. Police Archive Tree 
– Filing Cabinet → Box of Files → Case Folder → Microfilm → Digital Case 
Database 
 
    Design Rationale 
– 5 Core Investigative Trees → Always relevant, drive case progression 
(evidence, analysis, police work). 
– 5 Lifestyle/Drama Trees → Hook into suspects’ worlds (scandals, alibis, 
wealth, corruption). 
– 5 Environmental/Setting Trees → Give Havenbay City its own texture, make 
the board more visually varied and immersive. 
      These trees can be rotated per case: e.g., 
– Case 1 → Forensics + Lifestyle (murder at luxury villa). 
– Case 2 → DNA + Nightlife + Blackmail (nightclub scandal). 
– Case 3 → Dockside Evidence + Police Archive + Gossip (smuggling & coverup). 
 
Example Fingerprint Tree 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
Example Fingerprint Tree 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
Production Plan for a solo developer 
Production Plan for a Solo Developer 
Developing Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge as a solo project requires careful planning to 
manage scope, time, and resources. This section outlines a production roadmap, 
development milestones, and strategies to stay on track and maintain quality with a one-
person team. 
Development Phases and Timeline 
We’ll break the project into phases with rough time estimates (assuming full-time solo 
work): 

1.       Pre-Production (1 month): 
o   Finalize game design (this GDD) and gather reference materials. 
o   Create initial story outline and case breakdown (e.g., how many chapters, basic plot for 
each). 
o   Develop prototypes for core mechanics: a quick Unity prototype of the merge board to 
test basic merging, and a mock-up of dialogue system. This helps identify any technical 
unknowns early. 
o   Art style proofs of concept: draw a sample character portrait (Ally) and a sample item to 
ensure the style is attainable and appealing. 
o   Plan the project structure, set up version control, create a Trello or Jira board for tasks 
(even solo, organizing tasks is key). 
2.       Vertical Slice (2-3 months): 
o   Aim to build one complete small segment of the game: for instance, Chapter 1 (tutorial 
case) fully playable with final (or near-final) art, mechanics, UI, and audio. This acts as a 
proof-of-concept that all pieces (merge gameplay + narrative + monetization flows) work 
well together. 
o   Vertical slice tasks: Implement merge system fully (with a handful of item types), 
implement dialogue system and UI flow between puzzle and story, basic art for Ally and 
maybe one scene, basic SFX and a temp music track. Include the core loop. 
o   Test this slice on a few people (friends or a small tester group) to gather feedback on fun 
and clarity. 
o   This slice is also useful for pitching or showing potential supporters/publishers the 
vision. 
3.       Production (4-6 months): 
o   Develop all remaining content and features iteratively. Likely tackle chapter by chapter: 
o   Write the detailed script for Chapter 2, implement its puzzles and items, art for its 
characters and backgrounds, then test. Then move to Chapter 3, etc. 
o   Simultaneously, continuously refine the core systems (economy balancing, UI polish) as 
we add content. 
o   Asset creation: During this phase, a lot of time is creating art assets (dozens of item 
icons, character portraits, backgrounds). We can intermix art tasks with coding tasks to 
vary work and avoid burnout. 
o   Weekly or bi-weekly milestones: set small goals like “By end of week, Chapter 2 
narrative and puzzles done,” “Implement ad reward flow this week,” etc. This keeps 
progress measurable. 
o   Mid-production internal review: Once maybe 3-4 chapters are done, do a holistic 
playthrough to see pacing, difficulty, and story cohesion. Adjust as needed (maybe drop or 
add a puzzle if pacing off, tune spawn rates, etc.). 
o   Integration of SDKs (Firebase, Ads, IAP) should be done in this phase but not too late; 
ideally integrate a stub of these early to ensure they won’t cause big surprises near the end. 
For instance, get Unity IAP working by mid-production and test purchase flow in a 
sandbox. 
4.       Alpha/Beta Testing (1-2 months): 
o   When content is nearly complete (say all chapters are done in a basic form), start closed 
alpha testing. Recruit a handful of external testers (could be via a forum, or friends-of-
friends who haven’t seen the game yet for unbiased impressions). 
o   Focus of alpha: Are there any game-breaking bugs? Is the tutorial clear to new players? 
Is the difficulty curve acceptable? Also device compatibility (have testers on various 
devices). 
o   Collect feedback and fix issues. If testers blow through content too fast or get bored 
early, adjust accordingly. 
o   Beta phase might be a broader distribution (e.g., a limited release on Google Play Early 
Access in one region). This can gather data on retention and monetization with real users 
without huge marketing yet. Use Firebase analytics to see funnel metrics (level completion 
%, etc.). 
o   Polish art and audio during this time – finalize any placeholder art used during 
production, add more animations or effects to make the game feel complete. Optimize 
performance and load times (especially on older phones). 
o   Localization: If planning multiple languages at launch, prepare translations during beta. 
Given solo dev, maybe focus on English first, but keep text externalized for future 
localization. 
5.       Launch (Release): 
o   Prepare store listings (app description, screenshots, promo video). Emphasize the 
unique merge+crime story angle. Use our best character art and a catchy tagline. 
o   Release as a free download on both stores. Possibly do a soft launch in a smaller market 
(like release in Canada/Australia only) for a month to collect metrics in a live environment. 
Then global launch. 
o   Marketing efforts should coincide: reach out to mobile game reviewers, use social media, 
perhaps cross-promote on Reddit or Discord communities interested in puzzle or mystery 
games. As a solo dev, budget is limited, so we rely on organic interest – highlight the unique 
narrative hook to attract some PR. 
o   Ensure support channels are ready (email or website for support issues, a small FAQ for 
common questions like “How to save game?”, etc.). Also prepare for quick patches if any 
major bugs appear at launch. 
6.       Post-Launch Live Ops (Ongoing): 
o   Monitor analytics and reviews closely. Fix critical bugs immediately. 
o   Plan minor updates: maybe bug-fix patches weekly initially, then content updates. 
Content updates could be adding a small side story or bonus puzzles or seasonal event as 
feasible. 
o   Engage the community: if a subreddit or Discord forms around the game, participate to 
get feedback and build loyalty. 
o   Monetization tuning if needed: e.g., if nobody is buying a certain IAP, consider adjusting 
its content or price. If ad engagement is extremely high but revenue per user is low, 
evaluate if a bit more ad opportunities could be added without harm. 
o   Consider adding more chapters if the story allows and players want more – this depends 
on success and bandwidth. As a solo dev, might need to pause and see if revenue supports 
further development or if moving to next project is more viable. 
Task Management and Discipline 
·       Using an agile-ish approach: though solo, break tasks into user stories or features and 
track in a backlog. Work in sprints (say 2-week sprints) where you aim to complete a set of 
features. 
·       Regular check-ins with oneself or a mentor (maybe a fellow dev friend) to show 
progress and stay accountable. 
·       Feature creep control: With so many ideas possible, strictly stick to features that are 
core to the game’s experience. Use an “icebox” list for nice-to-haves that you can consider 
after launch or if time permits. For example, voice acting or a complex branching story 
might go to icebox if initial plan was simpler. 
·       Testing and QA: As solo dev, you’re also QA. Set aside dedicated time to play through 
the game often (not just unit testing pieces) to catch issues. Also, write down test cases 
(e.g., “Test starting new game after finishing one”, “Test IAP on both platforms”, “Test app 
minimized during save”, etc.) and systematically go through them before major builds. 
·       Outsourcing: Recognize personal skill limits. If, for instance, composing music is not a 
strength, consider licensing music or hiring a freelance composer for a few tracks (fitting it 
in budget). Similarly, maybe commission key character art if needed. Outsourcing small 
pieces can save time and improve quality. Websites like Fiverr or collaboration with a 
fellow indie might help here. 
·       Asset Store usage: Use Unity Asset Store to save time on generic systems or art: 
o   A pre-made merge puzzle toolkit if one exists, to avoid reinventing board logic (but 
careful it fits our needs). 
o   UI skins or icon packs that can be modified for our style, to expedite UI development. 
o   Plugins like DoTween for smooth UI animations to avoid writing those from scratch. 
o   Visual effect prefabs (for particle effects like glows or fireworks on success). 
o   These can boost efficiency but ensure they integrate well and don’t bloat the project. 
Milestone Deliverables (for pitching) 
If this GDD is also for pitching, some milestones/deliverables can be highlighted to 
potential stakeholders: 
·       Milestone 1: Playable prototype (core merge and one dialogue) – expected by [Date]. 
·       Milestone 2: Vertical slice demo (Chapter 1 complete) – expected by [Date], can be 
provided to publishers for evaluation. 
·       Milestone 3: Beta build (content complete, needing polish) – by [Date]. 
·       Final Release – target [Date] (for example, 9-12 months from project start, which is an 
aggressive but possible timeline for a solo puzzle game with narrative). 
Risk Management 
Identify major risks and mitigations: 
·       Scope Overrun: Risk that game takes too long or content is too much for one person. 
Mitigation: possibly reduce number of chapters if running behind (better to ship a shorter 
but complete story than never finish). Or release initial version with fewer chapters and 
add more later. 
·       Burnout: Solo dev can be exhausting. Mitigation: maintain a sustainable pace, take 
breaks, connect with communities for moral support. If possible, bring in part-time help for 
tedious tasks (maybe someone to help test or write some dialogue). 
·       Technical challenges: e.g., integration of some SDK failing. Mitigation: allocate buffer 
time for unforeseen tech issues, keep engine and SDKs updated, and have alternative plans 
(if Unity Ads had an issue, could switch to AdMob, etc.). 
·       Market risk: The game might not find an audience or monetization might be weak. 
Mitigation: design for a niche (true crime puzzle) with a distinct hook, engage in pre-launch 
marketing (devlogs, social media) to build interest. If monetization is weak, ensure at least 
game can sustain on small fanbase or be used as portfolio piece to secure other 
opportunities. 
·       App Store compliance: Ensure early on that content is appropriate (likely 12+ or 17+ 
rating due to crime themes). No real graphic gore in visuals to keep rating in check; story 
can mention murders but we won’t depict extreme violence visually. 
Budget Consideration 
While not explicitly asked, in planning, note budget: Being solo, main “cost” is personal 
time. However, expect some expenses: 
·       Software (Unity is free or plus, art software license, etc.). 
·       Firebase and servers: small usage likely free tier initially. 
·       Asset store plugins or art/music outsourcing: allocate maybe a few hundred dollars if 
possible (e.g., $500 for music, $200 for plugins). 
·       Testing devices if need to buy (or just borrow from friends). 
·       Marketing (maybe a small spend on Facebook ads or attending an expo indie showcase 
fee). 
We manage these costs and possibly consider a Kickstarter or Patreon if needing funding 
and community involvement, though that comes with its own overhead. 
 
UI/UX Design 
UI/UX Design 
Designing an intuitive and appealing user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) is vital 
for a mobile game. In True Crime Merge, the UI must accommodate both the merge puzzle 
gameplay and narrative delivery seamlessly, while maintaining the thematic style. Here we 
describe the main UI screens, layout, and UX considerations. 
Core Gameplay Screen (Merge Board UI) 
The main gameplay screen is where the player spends most of their time. Key elements of 
this screen include: 
·       Merge Board: Center stage is the grid or area where item icons are displayed and can 
be merged. This will take up the majority of the screen for visibility. Items are represented 
by icons (with small labels if needed for clarity). The board might be an 8x8 grid (or 
dynamically sized area) with a faint grid guide. The background of the board could 
resemble a detective’s desk or corkboard (to fit theme) but kept subtle so as not to distract 
from items. 
·       Task List / Objective Panel: A panel (possibly at the top or a side) shows current 
objectives. For example: “Objective: Create a Crime Scene Photo” with a small icon of that 
item and a progress indicator (like 0/1). If multiple objectives are active, they’re listed here 
or toggleable. This panel ensures the player always knows what they’re working towards. 
·       Energy Bar: Usually at the top, a lightning bolt icon with a number shows the current 
energy. If energy is used to generate items, the player can see it deplete and recharge timer. 
Tapping it might open a tooltip or menu for how to get more (watch ad, use item, etc.). 
·       Currencies: Also at the top HUD, display soft currency (coins) and any premium 
currency (gems). These have ‘+’ buttons next to them allowing purchase if tapped. We keep 
them visible but not obtrusive. 
·       Inventory/Storage Button: If we have a storage stash, an icon (like a briefcase) will 
open the inventory overlay, where players can move items in/out. A small number 
indicator might show how many items stored. 
·       Menu and Settings: Likely in a corner (top-right typically) a menu button (hamburger 
or gear icon) opens the game menu (settings, help, quit, etc.). This keeps clutter off the 
main screen. 
·       Character Dialogue Popup: During gameplay, if a story snippet triggers, a small 
dialogue box with character portrait can overlay at the top or bottom without leaving the 
screen. For example, Ally’s face and a speech bubble: “I need to find out what’s on this 
tape…” The player can tap to dismiss after reading. This allows narrative to interject during 
puzzles. 
·       Hints/Tools Bar: If we offer boosters (e.g. a hint that highlights possible merges, a tool 
to clear an item, etc.), those appear as buttons around the board. For instance, a “Hint” 
button (question mark icon) might glow when a hint is available, or a “Shuffle” button to 
rearrange items if player is stuck (common in puzzle games). 
·       Visual Design: All UI elements follow a style guide: possibly dark, translucent panels 
with subtle texture (to evoke a detective’s notepad or computer interface). Fonts might be 
clean and modern for readability, with maybe a stylized header font for titles (like a stencil 
or typewriter font to fit crime theme). Important interactive elements will highlight on 
touch and give audio feedback (click sounds). 
·       Feedback: When merging items, a brief animation will play (items sliding together and 
transforming). Visual effects like a small flash or particles can make it satisfying. Also, a 
floating text or icon might show up (“Clue Found!”) for key merges. These UI feedbacks 
confirm the action. We ensure these effects are quick and don’t block further interaction 
(user can continue merging while rewards tally up in a corner, for example). 
Narrative Scenes UI 
When the game transitions to story delivery: 
·       Dialogue Mode: The screen dims the background (maybe showing the current 
location blurred or an illustration of the scene) and character portraits appear. Typically, 
one portrait on the left for Ally (the player) and on the right for the other character 
speaking, or a single center portrait if it’s a monologue. Dialogue text appears in a text box 
at the bottom. The design of this text box could mimic a subtitle or visual novel style – a 
semi-transparent dark box with white text for good contrast. The speaking character’s 
name is shown above the text in a distinctive color or font. 
·       Player Choices: Occasionally, two or three buttons with choice text will pop up above 
the dialogue box when a decision point occurs. The player taps their choice, which then 
continues the dialogue. These buttons should be large enough for mobile and clearly 
indicate selection (highlight on tap). 
·       Cinematic Illustrations: For key moments, an illustration might take over most of the 
screen. We’ll still overlay text on it if needed, but these are more static cutscenes. We might 
include a subtle “continue” prompt so the player knows to tap to move on. 
·       Skip/Pause: It’s good UX to allow players some control – a “Skip” button for cutscenes 
(for players who replay or are impatient) and possibly a backlog to review past dialogue. 
However, as a story-focused game, we might not encourage skipping on first playthrough. 
Still, a skip could be present but require a hold to confirm (to avoid accidental taps). 
·       Integration Back to Game: After dialogues, a clear UI cue returns the player to the 
merge screen (like a “Continue” button or just tapping through the last line auto-closes the 
scene). We must ensure any items or clues gained in the dialogue (if any) are then reflected 
on the board or inventory immediately to avoid confusion. 
Additional Screens and Menus 
·       Main Menu / Home Screen: Before entering a level, the game might have a home 
interface. This could be Ally’s detective office as a backdrop. From here, players can see an 
overview: maybe a city map or case file menu to select chapters (once unlocked). Also on 
this screen might be buttons for Shop (IAP), Inventory, Settings, etc. The main menu gives 
access to non-gameplay features: 
·       Case File/Chapter Select: a UI listing chapters with labels (and maybe a small photo 
representing each case). Completed ones have a checkmark, current one says “Current 
Case”, future ones locked with a lock icon. 
·       Daily Challenges: a small panel or icon leading to daily task list. 
·       Event Banner: if any time-limited event is running, a banner could show here. 
·       We should keep the home screen uncluttered and thematic – maybe the UI looks like 
Ally’s bulletin board with pinned case notes as buttons. 
·       Shop UI: Where IAP and currency purchases happen. Should clearly show prices, 
what’s included, and have categories (Currency, Boosters, Special Offers). Use clean grid 
layout with icons. Also possibly a section for watching ads for rewards (“Watch Video – get 
+30 Energy” button). 
·       Settings: Contains sound/music volume toggles, language selection, account (if using 
cloud saves or login), and support links. This will be a simple scroll panel with text buttons 
or toggles. 
·       Tutorial Prompts: Early in the game, context-sensitive arrows and highlights will 
appear to teach the UI (“Drag this to that to merge”, “This is your task list”). We’ll use semi-
transparent overlays to focus attention and brief text. All tutorial prompts can be dismissed 
by tapping or after the action is done. 
UX Considerations 
·       One-Hand Friendly: Many mobile players use one hand. Our drag-and-drop merging 
inherently might use one finger; we ensure targets (items) are big enough to touch easily. 
We also allow tapping an item to select and then tapping a target to merge (for accessibility 
if dragging is hard). 
·       Clarity and Readability: The item icons should be distinct and recognizable at small 
size. We’ll use colors and silhouettes that differentiate item types (e.g., clue items colored 
differently than tool items) so at a glance players can see merges. All text is high contrast 
(light text on dark background or vice versa) for readability on small screens. 
·       Consistent Visual Language: Interactive elements are consistently styled (buttons 
have same shape/color scheme, etc.), so once a player learns the style, they can identify 
tappable things easily. 
·       Transitions and Animations: Smooth transitions between UI states (gameplay to 
dialogue, menu to game, etc.) will make the experience feel polished. For example, starting 
a chapter could show a “Case Start” screen (like a title card with the case name) then fade 
into the board. Merging animations should be quick (to not stall gameplay) but satisfying. 
UI animations (like currency counting up when reward collected) should not block input 
for long – allow skip if needed. 
·       Feedback & Error Prevention: The UI should give feedback when an action can’t be 
done. If the board is full and the player tries to generate an item, we might shake the 
generator icon and show a tooltip “Board is full!” in a friendly way. If a merge isn’t possible 
(dragging incompatible items), they just won’t merge (maybe a shake or a small “no” icon). 
Essentially, always inform the player why something isn’t happening to avoid confusion. 
·       Responsive Layout: Different screen sizes and orientations – we likely lock 
orientation to portrait (most merge games are portrait for easy one-hand use). We’ll ensure 
UI scales or repositions for various aspect ratios (on taller screens we might show more 
board, on tablets might add sidebars). Using Unity’s Canvas Scaler and anchoring will 
handle much of this. 
Thematic UI Elements 
·       To reinforce the detective theme in the UI: 
·       The task list might look like a sticky note or a file folder tab. 
·       Buttons could have a subtle fingerprint texture or magnifying glass icon motif. 
·       Loading screen tips could show an image of a spinning detective badge or rotating 
evidence. 
·       Case transition screens might be styled like an evidence board with string connecting 
clues (purely decorative but thematic). 
·       Use of sounds: UI clicks might sound like a pen click or a camera shutter (for taking 
photo of clue). 
·       When a chapter is completed, the UI might stamp “CASE CLOSED” on the screen in a 
stylized way, very satisfying to the player. 
Overall, the UI/UX goal is to be player-friendly and thematic. It should never distract or 
confuse the player – instead, it guides them naturally through the game’s systems. Because 
we combine puzzle and story, a key UX challenge is balancing information: ensuring the 
player can focus on the puzzle when playing, but also easily access story context when 
needed (via dialogues or a case notes screen). Playtesting will be important: watching new 
users interact to see if they understand what to do, where to tap, etc., and iterating on the 
UI based on that. 
Given this is a solo development, we will likely use Unity’s UI toolkit and maybe some 
existing UI skin or asset as a starting point to save time, customizing it to fit our theme. 
Consistency and polish (smooth animations, no clunky transitions) will make the game feel 
high-quality, which is important both for player retention and for making a good 
impression during pitches or store featuring. 
 
Monetisation Strategy 
Monetisation Strategy 
The monetisation strategy for Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is designed to align with the 
free-to-play model while respecting the player experience. The goal is to generate revenue 
through in-app purchases (IAP) and rewarded advertisements, without compromising the 
game’s integrity or enjoyment. Below we detail the key monetisation features and how they 
integrate into the gameplay in a balanced way. 
In-App Purchases (IAP) 
Our IAP approach centers on selling convenience and cosmetic enhancements, not hard 
gating content behind a paywall. This ensures that non-paying players can still experience 
the full narrative and gameplay, while paying players can accelerate progress or customize 
their experience. Key IAP offerings: 
·       Currency Packs: Sell packs of the in-game soft currency (e.g., Coins). Coins might be 
used in-game to buy energy refills, boosters, or missing item pieces. We’ll have tiered packs 
(Small Pack $0.99, Medium $4.99, Large $9.99, etc., up to perhaps a $49.99 best-value pack) 
to cater to different spending levels. The larger packs give better per-coin value as an 
incentive. 
·       Energy Refills: If the game uses an energy system, offer a direct energy top-up for a 
small price (or for premium currency). For example, $1.99 to refill to max energy 
immediately. However, many players might opt to watch an ad for free energy, so this is for 
those who prefer paying to remove waits entirely. 
·       Boosters and Power-ups: One-time use items that ease gameplay. Examples: 
o   “Instant Merge” Booster: instantly upgrade an item by one level (skip needing the 
duplicate merge). Useful for that last pesky item. 
o   “Board Expand” (temporary): adds a few extra board slots for the duration of a level. 
o   Clue Finder: highlights a chain that leads to a needed item. 
These could be sold for premium currency or in bundles (e.g., 5-pack of boosters for $2.99). 
·       No Ads (Premium Upgrade): A one-time purchase (maybe $5-10) that removes all non-
optional ads from the game. Since our primary ads are rewarded (optional), this mainly 
would remove any interstitials and possibly give a small perk (like double daily reward) to 
make it appealing. It’s a goodwill option for players who want to support the game and 
avoid ads entirely. 
·       Cosmetic or Bonus Content: While the game is story-driven (not much room for 
cosmetic skins in a puzzle grid), we could consider selling cosmetic customizations for Ally 
or her office. For instance, a pack that allows the player to decorate Ally’s detective office 
(posters, furniture skins) purely for personalization, or alternate outfits for Ally’s portrait 
in dialogues. These wouldn’t affect gameplay but give personal expression for those 
interested. This is a minor revenue stream but can be included (e.g., “Detective’s Wardrobe 
Pack”). 
·       Case Unlocks (if applicable): Generally, we don’t want to lock story chapters behind 
pay. However, if the game was extremely content-rich, one model is to allow paying to 
instantly unlock the next chapter without waiting (if we had a time-release model). But 
since we aim to let everyone progress as they play, we probably won’t do chapter gating by 
pay. If anything, a “Season Pass” approach could be applied for new content: e.g., a special 
side-case that is optional lore, available only via purchase. But that risks fragmenting story, 
so it must be handled carefully. We will avoid that at launch. 
Pricing Strategy: Pricing will follow mobile norms, starting low ($0.99) to entice first 
purchases (often converting a user even once greatly increases retention). We might offer a 
special starter bundle after tutorial: e.g., $2.99 for a mix of coins, energy, and a unique 
booster – marketed as 60% off value, to encourage impulse buy early when player is 
excited. Psychological pricing (like .99) and showing value (strike-through original price if 
on sale) helps conversion. 
Retention and IAP: Many F2P games see most spending from a small percentage of 
“whales”. We will include higher-value packages (like a $49.99 coin pack) for those who 
want to support more, but our expectation is to monetise modestly per paying user since 
this is not a competitive or vanity-driven game. Instead, we rely on steady small purchases 
from engaged players (e.g., a player who really enjoys the game might spend $5-20 over its 
course to speed things up or thank the dev by buying no-ads). Providing good value and not 
forcing spend builds goodwill, potentially increasing the long-term audience and revenue 
overall through volume. 
Rewarded Advertisements 
Rewarded ads form the backbone of the ad strategy: players choose to watch a short video 
(typically 15-30 seconds) in exchange for an in-game reward. This is a win-win: players 
who don’t spend money can still progress faster by trading a bit of time/attention, and the 
game earns some revenue from the ad networks. 
·       Energy Refills via Ads: When out of energy, prompt the player: “Watch an ad to restore 
50 Energy.” This allows extended play sessions for engaged users. Limit how often (e.g., can 
do this 3 times a day) to prevent abuse and ensure some pressure to either wait or spend. 
·       Extra Generators or Item Drops: If a player needs a particular base item and is unlucky 
or out of spawns, an ad can give a “Free Supply Drop” that spawns a few useful items. For 
example, “Evidence Kit Delivery” ad could spawn one or two random clue pieces onto the 
board. 
·       Double Rewards: After completing a case or a level objective, we can offer “Watch ad to 
double your coin reward” (a common implementation). Players feel like they’re getting a 
bonus, and it’s entirely optional. 
·       Second Chance: If we ever introduce fail-states (say a timed challenge that ran out), an 
ad could allow a second chance to continue rather than starting over. 
·       Daily Reward Boost: Daily login bonuses could be boosted via ad. E.g., daily reward is 
100 coins, but if you watch an ad, you get 150 coins instead. 
·       Ad Frequency & UX: These ads are all opt-in. We will ensure the prompts are clear and 
not too spammy. For example, use a small “+” icon next to energy that indicates an ad is 
available to get more, rather than full-screen pop-ups. When an ad is loading or not 
available, handle gracefully (“Ad not available right now, try later”). 
·       We avoid forced interstitial ads during gameplay. Possibly we might have an interstitial 
between chapters or on a natural loading screen, but we have to be cautious: too many 
forced ads can anger players and break immersion, especially in a story game. We err on 
the side of either none or very minimal (like one every few chapters or if the player has 
played non-stop for a long time without engaging with any monetisation – some games 
trigger an interstitial after X minutes of continuous play as a monetisation catch). 
·       Ad Providers & Mediation: We’ll use Unity Ads by default, which will show a mix of 
game ads that suit our audience. Over time, if we scale, consider mediation with AdMob etc. 
to ensure fill rate globally. 
Balancing Monetisation with Gameplay 
We will carefully design the game’s economy so that free players can progress at a 
satisfying rate, while impatient players have the option to speed up via ads or IAP. Key 
balancing points: 
·       The energy regeneration will be set such that a player can complete a reasonable 
amount of gameplay in a session (say 10-20 minutes) before running out. If they run out, 
they naturally come back later (good for retention) or choose an ad/coin to keep going. We 
don’t want them to feel they hit a hard wall quickly. 
·       The merge item drop rates and task requirements will be tuned so that while some 
tasks take time (perhaps hours or a day of casual play to achieve a high-level item), players 
usually have multiple tasks to work on, as noted earlier, to reduce frustration. Monetisation 
can offer shortcuts (e.g., buy that high-level item outright with premium currency in a 
pinch, or use an instant merge booster), but players can always get it eventually through 
normal play. 
·       We will monitor via analytics where players get frustrated or quit. If a certain task has 
a high abandonment rate, that’s a sign it either needs rebalancing or a better monetisation 
option (like offering help via an ad or cheap booster at that point). 
·       Communication: We will be transparent with players when something is monetisation-
related. For example, if a task would realistically take a lot of grinding, we might 
proactively present the option “This might take a while – you can speed it up with a booster 
from the shop” in a friendly way. But we avoid dark patterns (no deceptive timers or 
sudden paywalls to see the next part of the story). 
·       Whale Features: Although not primary focus, we can include some higher-priced 
cosmetic or convenience items that don’t break the game but give big spenders something 
to buy (some players actually want to spend more if they love a game). E.g., an “Unlimited 
Energy for 7 days” pass for $9.99 might appeal to heavy users, or a $19.99 bundle that 
includes a bunch of boosters and a unique cosmetic like an alternate Ally outfit. These 
provide avenues for those who are willing to support more. 
Advertising and Cross-promotion 
·       We might include cross-promo for our own products if any (or partner indie games) in 
the future, through a “More Games” section, but as first title, not applicable. 
·       Ensure ads do not advertise competing narrative merge games too heavily (though we 
can’t fully control it). If it becomes an issue, consider filters or direct deals for more 
relevant ads. 
Post-Launch Monetisation Enhancements 
·       As the game updates with new cases, we could introduce a Season Pass/Battle Pass 
system: e.g., a monthly “Detective Pass” where by completing tasks you earn extra rewards. 
Free tier vs premium tier (premium pass bought with one-time purchase each season) 
giving bonus items, exclusive cosmetic. This can drive recurring revenue if the user base is 
there. But this adds complexity, so it might be a later addition if at all. 
·       Seasonal events can have special offers. For instance, a Halloween event might have a 
limited-time booster or cosmetic that can be purchased. 
·       LiveOps sales: occasionally discount currency packs or bundles and advertise in-game 
(without being too intrusive) to entice purchases. 
Metrics and Adjustments 
We will define key monetisation metrics to track: 
·       Conversion rate (percentage of players who make at least one purchase). 
·       ARPDAU (average revenue per daily active user) combining IAP and ad revenue. 
·       Retention of payers vs non-payers. 
·       Usage of ads: how many ads watched per DAU, and where (for energy vs double 
rewards etc. – see which is popular). 
·       With these, we can iterate: e.g., if few use the energy ad, maybe energy is too generous 
or the prompt is hidden – adjust accordingly. If conversion is low but ad engagement high, 
maybe introduce more attractive low-cost IAP options or first-time purchase bonus. 
In essence, our monetisation strategy is player-friendly – we monetise engagement rather 
than force. By making a game that players want to keep playing, we create opportunities 
for them to invest either time (watching ads) or money (purchases) to enhance their 
experience. We will avoid common pitfalls like pay-to-win or excessive greed that could 
drive players away early. Instead, we focus on building trust: if players feel the game 
respects them, they’re more likely to support it financially over time. 
Alright, let’s zoom in on how your GDD actually frames its free-to-play economy and where 
the rough edges might lurk. I’ll stick to what’s written in your doc (the cleaned-up version 
in canvas) and translate it into “player feel” terms. 
 
1. Core Energy System 
• Energy Cap: 100, regen 1 every 3 minutes (so ~5 hours to refill). 
• Generators: 3, ticking at 30/60/120 minutes. 
• Ad Refills: +50 energy, max 3 per day. 
Player experience: That’s roughly 20–25 minutes of free play per session, two or three 
times a day. Pretty standard for merge games. The ad refills extend play nicely without 
punishing free players. 
Risk: if objectives later need too many Level 5+ merges, players could feel stalled. You’ll 
need to test early to make sure “25–40 minutes to craft L5” feels rewarding, not like 
waiting for a bus. 
 
2. Currency Model 
• Launch choice: Coins only (soft currency). 
• Removed confusion: Gems deferred until Season 2+. 
• Coin sinks: energy refills, boosters, skips. 
• Coin sources: merges, daily tasks, case completions. 
Player experience: Single-currency is cleaner. Players know exactly what coins do. By 
contrast, two-currency economies (coins + gems) often confuse or frustrate. 
Risk: Without a premium tier, whales (big spenders) have limited places to put money. 
That might cap revenue, but it also makes the early player experience feel fair and 
transparent. 
 
3. Ads vs Purchases 
• Rewarded Ads: energy refills, supply drops, double rewards, second chances. 
• No-Ads purchase: disables interstitials only, rewarded ads remain optional. 
Player experience: Excellent compromise. You aren’t cutting off ad rewards if someone 
buys “No-Ads,” so both play styles stay supported. 
Risk: You’ll need to decide whether to even use interstitials at all. Many narrative players 
hate them—so leaning 95% on rewarded ads might be the better trust-building path. 
 
4. IAP Structure 
• Coin packs: $0.99 up to ~$49.99. 
• Boosters: Instant merge, board expand, clue finder. 
• Energy refills: direct purchase. 
• No-Ads one-time purchase. 
• Cosmetics (Ally outfits/office skins): optional, flavour only. 
Player experience: Player-first design—you’re monetising convenience and cosmetics 
rather than content lock. Narrative stays free. 
Risk: Heavy puzzle grinders might blow through content faster than you can deliver new 
episodes, so whales may run out of reasons to spend unless you have mid-season events or 
vanity unlocks. 
 
5. Retention Hooks 
• Daily login rewards. 
• Optional events/mini-cases. 
• Episode-structured narrative (each case = ~14 days of play). 
This gives you a “Netflix drip” model where the story keeps players curious. Smart 
alignment of content cadence with monetisation cadence. 
 
   Overall verdict: Your F2P design is respectful—no paywalls on story, no double 
currency grind. Ads are optional, IAPs are accelerators not gates. It’s player-friendly, but 
may earn less than aggressive models. That’s fine if the goal is trust and niche appeal 
rather than whale-driven mega-scale. 
    Key design lever you’ll need to tune early: the energy regen + item tree depth + 
objective pacing. That’s what decides whether free players feel satisfied or strangled. 
Analytics (time to L5 item, average session length) will tell you if the balance is right. 
 
Economy_Balancing.xlsx (15 KB) 
Art Direction and Style Guide 
Art Direction and Style Guide 
The visual style of Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge is crucial in establishing the game’s identity 
– it needs to be visually appealing, thematically appropriate, and achievable for a solo 
developer. Here we outline the art direction, including character design, environment art, 
item art, and overall aesthetics, along with guidelines to maintain consistency. 
Artistic Style Overview 
The game uses a semi-realistic cartoon art style. This means characters and objects are 
drawn with relatively realistic proportions and detail, but rendered in a stylized, 
illustrative manner (not photo-realistic). For example, characters will have human 
proportions (not chibi or overly exaggerated), yet their features might have bold outlines 
or simplified shading, similar to an animated graphic novel. This style is seen in some 
modern games where realistic anatomy meets stylized rendering – for instance, Final 
Fantasy characters or Street Fighter 6 fighters have lifelike builds but clearly artistic, non-
photoreal coloring. 
Tone and Mood: The tone is serious and noir-inspired. The color palette leans towards 
moody and slightly desaturated colors with strategic use of vibrant highlights for clues or 
important elements. Expect a lot of midnight blues, grays, muted browns for environments, 
contrasted with sharp reds or yellows to draw attention to evidence (blood, caution tape, 
etc.). Lighting is dramatic: we will use shadows and contrast to evoke suspense (like a 
single streetlight illuminating a scene, or venetian blind shadow across an office). This 
aligns with true crime and noir detective atmospheres. 
Characters Design 
Character designs follow the semi-realistic cartoon style, with an emphasis on expressive 
portraits for dialogue sequences. Final character designs, turnarounds, and expression 
sheets are defined in the Character Bible. 
Environment and Backgrounds 
Environments and locations are based on the districts and landmarks described in 
the Havenbay City Setting Guide. The art direction for these locations leverages a moody, 
noir-inspired palette as defined in that document. 
Item Art 
·       Icon Style: Every item that appears on the merge board will be represented by a clear, 
easily recognizable icon. The art style for items will be slightly simplified realism: they 
should be identifiable (a knife looks like a knife, a fingerprint looks like a fingerprint) but 
drawn in a cohesive cartoon style (bold outlines or colored outlines, flat colors with 
minimal gradients). They might resemble hidden object game items or inventory icons 
from adventure games. 
·       Size & Clarity: We must consider that on the board, items might be as small as ~64x64 
pixels on phone. So, designs need to avoid too much tiny detail. Each icon will have a strong 
silhouette and distinct color if possible. For example, a Key icon: golden color, classic key 
shape, maybe a highlight. A Document icon: white paper with a red stamp. Consistency in 
perspective (likely all drawn facing forward or at a slight top-down angle uniformly) is 
important. 
·       Thematic Cohesion: Items related to evidence might have a somewhat realistic look 
(blood vial, bullet casing, etc.), whereas items like tools might be a bit exaggerated (a 
cartoonishly big magnifying glass). However, keep everything within the same semi-real 
boundary – no super deformed or overly cute items; maintain the serious theme (even if 
stylized). 
·       Animations & Effects: Some higher-tier items could have a subtle effect – e.g., the final 
“Key Evidence” item could have a slight glow or particle effect around it on the board to 
signify its importance. We can achieve this by attaching a particle system or an animated 
glow sprite to that icon when it appears. 
·       Color Palette: We will reuse a coherent palette across items to avoid clashing visuals. 
Earthy and muted base colors, but certain important items using accent colors (red for 
blood drops, bright metallic for weapons). If multiple items are similar, we differentiate 
with color or shape (to help colorblind players, we’ll also use distinct shapes/patterns). 
User Interface Art 
While covered partly in UI/UX, from an art perspective: 
·       UI Skins: The UI elements (buttons, panels) will be custom-skinned to fit the theme. 
Possibly a dark theme with light text. Panel backgrounds might have a subtle texture (like 
paper fiber or brushed metal for a high-tech feel in lab menus). 
·       Icons: Custom icons for energy (e.g., a small battery or lightning), currency (coins, 
gem), and boosters (hint symbol, etc.) will be drawn in the same icon style as game items, 
but perhaps simpler. 
·       Fonts: We choose fonts that match the style: maybe a clean sans-serif for most text for 
readability, and a decorative font for titles (like a stencil font for “Case #1” headings, 
reminiscent of case files). 
·       FX & Transitions: Graphical flourishes like when a chapter title appears, it might come 
with a quick sketchy animation (could pre-render this as frames). Or when a clue is solved, 
maybe an overlay of red stamp “SOLVED” appears briefly – that graphic will be pre-made in 
a fitting style (like typewriter font). 
·       Consistency: The art style of UI should not feel out of place next to character art. For 
instance, avoid ultra-glossy 3D-looking buttons in a 2D illustrated game. We’ll likely design 
flat or minimally shaded icons and use the game’s color scheme in UI elements. 
Art Production Notes for Solo Dev 
Because this is a solo/indie project, the art style is chosen to be attainable without a large 
team: 
·       Using a stylized cartoon approach reduces production time compared to full realism 
– stylized assets can be created faster and by a smaller team. One person can manage this 
style by leveraging digital illustration tools and possibly some asset store resources (like 
base character rigs or icon packs to modify). 
·       We will create reusable assets: e.g., a generic city street background that can be 
tinted/time-of-day changed for multiple scenes, or modular pieces (like interior furniture 
sprites) to assemble multiple room backgrounds. 
·       We might utilize software like Adobe Illustrator or Photoshop for art, or even Unity’s 
2D features (the new Vector Graphics or PSD Importer) to ease iteration. 
·       If needed, commission of key art (like main character concept) can be done upfront, 
then the solo dev can produce all variations and additional assets in-house following that 
style guide. 
Style Guide Summary 
To ensure consistency, any artist (even if just the solo developer at different times) should 
follow these guidelines: 
·       Line Work: Use uniform line weight, slightly thick for clear definition on small screens. 
Lines can be colored a darker shade of the fill color for a softer look, instead of pure black 
(common in modern cartoons). 
·       Shading: Adopt either cell shading (hard shadows) or a simple gradient shading, but 
do not mix with hyper-realistic lighting. Likely one shadow layer and one highlight layer 
per asset, to give depth but maintain a graphic look. 
·       Proportions: Keep human proportions realistic (around 7-8 heads tall for adult 
characters). Avoid exaggerated physics (no enormous guns or comically large heads – 
unless an art item intentionally, but likely not). Items should be reasonably proportionate 
(a key icon smaller than a crowbar icon, etc., but all clear at icon size). 
·       Effects Style: Effects like smoke, fire, glows should complement the 2D art. Possibly 
use hand-drawn effect sprites or particle textures that look like they belong (no realistic 
particle images that clash). 
·       Reference and Inspiration: Share references such as Batman: The Animated Series 
(for serious tone cartoon), Disco Elysium art style (painterly yet stylized characters), or 
Detective Comics covers. These help maintain vision. 
·       Accessibility: Ensure color choices consider colorblindness (don’t rely solely on 
red/green differences for critical info; use shapes or labels as well). Use readable font sizes. 
Use UI contrast sufficiently. 
By adhering to this art direction, Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge will have a cohesive visual 
identity: one that stands out with its stylish, noir cartoon look, appealing to players 
scrolling through an app store, and delivering an immersive experience that matches the 
narrative’s tone. The art will not only make the game attractive but also improve usability 
(clear items, clear characters) and performance (2D stylized art is lightweight to render, 
benefiting mobile performance). The combination of modern 2D tech (URP 2D lighting, 
etc.) with solid art fundamentals will give us the best of both worlds in presentation. 
Audio Direction 
Audio Direction 
Audio is a key component to building atmosphere and feedback in the game. In True Crime 
Merge, the audio design (music and sound effects) will enhance the noir, suspenseful mood 
and provide satisfying responses to player actions. This section describes the direction for 
music and sound, as well as any voice-over considerations. 
Music 
The music in Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge should set a mysterious, immersive tone 
without overpowering the puzzle gameplay or dialogue. Key approaches to music: 
·       Style and Genre: A blend of ambient thriller soundtrack with subtle noir influences. 
Think soft, moody electronica fused with classical suspense cues. We might incorporate 
jazz undertones (soft piano, saxophone riffs) in calm investigation scenes to nod to 
detective noir, and tense orchestration (low strings, pulsing synth) during critical moments. 
The soundtrack should feel modern (since it’s a contemporary crime story) but with classic 
crime drama vibes. 
·       Dynamic Mood: Different game states get different music: 
o   While merging (general gameplay), a looping background track that is relatively low-key 
and repetitive (not to distract). Possibly a brooding ambient track with light rhythm – 
enough to keep engagement but allow thinking. It should evoke curiosity and 
concentration. 
o   During story cutscenes or dialogues, the music can swell or change to match the scene. 
E.g., an emotional revelation might have a poignant piano theme, a tense confrontation gets 
a suspenseful high-pitch drone, a victory moment after solving a case has a triumphant or 
relieving melody. 
o   Menu/Home screens might have a neutral/melodic theme that’s inviting but not too 
intense – perhaps the “Ally Quinn theme,” a recognizable motif associated with our 
protagonist (could be a specific sequence of notes or instrument). 
·       Variability: To avoid ear fatigue (since puzzle sessions can go long), we’ll have 
multiple tracks that can rotate or switch between chapters. Each chapter might introduce a 
new main background track fitting its setting (for example, a chapter in a rainy 
neighborhood might have a track with distant thunder and melancholic tune). 
·       Adaptive Elements: If possible, implement basic adaptive music – e.g., layering in 
additional instruments as the board gets closer to objective completion or as time runs low 
on a timed event. Unity’s audio engine or middleware like FMOD could handle this, but 
given solo dev, we might keep it simple with track crossfades. 
·       Influences: Influences for the score include composers like Trent Reznor & Atticus 
Ross (for ambient tension), classic film noir scores (for subtle jazz elements), and puzzle 
game soundtracks that remain engaging but not distracting. 
·       Production: Since budget might be limited, consider licensing royalty-free tracks that 
fit the mood, or using procedural music tools. Alternatively, commission a composer for a 
few core tracks and then create variations. Quality is key – using real instrument samples 
or high-quality synths to avoid a cheap MIDI sound. The music should speak to players on 
a deep level and reinforce emotion; for instance, a haunting violin during a sad story 
moment can deepen the player’s emotional connection. 
Sound Effects 
Sound effects (SFX) provide feedback and enhance realism: 
·       Merge and Puzzle SFX: Every merge action should have a satisfying sound. Likely a 
soft “click” or “pop” that gives a sense of two items combining. Higher-tier merges might 
have a slightly more impactful sound or an added sparkle chime to indicate a big 
achievement. Collecting a clue item could play a short “discovery” jingle (a few notes rising) 
to reward the player’s success. 
·       UI and Feedback: Button clicks produce a subtle click or mechanical sound (maybe 
like a camera shutter for capturing clues as earlier mentioned). Opening menus could have 
a slight whoosh or paper rustle (like opening a file). Error actions (like trying to merge 
incompatible items) could give a gentle “nope” sound (maybe a soft buzzer or a muted 
thud) to indicate nothing happened. 
·       Narrative/Event SFX: We will include ambient sounds to accompany scenes: 
o   In a crime scene, you might hear faint police sirens or dripping water in the background 
of a cave scene. 
o   When a dialogue mentions a critical event (e.g., a gunshot in the story), we play that 
gunshot sound for impact. 
o   If the villain calls Ally on the phone, a phone ring sound plays. 
o   These sounds are used selectively to augment the story’s immersion without turning 
the game into an audio drama entirely. 
·       Atmospheric Loops: For continuous atmosphere, certain scenes (especially 
backgrounds) might have looping ambient sounds: rain patter for a rainy street, office 
chatter muffled in a police station, crickets at night, etc. These loops play quietly under the 
music to add depth to the environment. 
·       Voice and Vocalizations: Fully voiced dialogue is likely beyond scope for a solo 
project due to cost and localization, so we’ll rely on text for the story. However, we can use 
minimal vocalizations to give characters presence: 
o   A short voice clip for Ally when something is found (“Got it!” in a confident tone, or a 
thoughtful “Hmm…”). 
o   NPCs might have a generic greeting or exclamation (“Hey!” for Marcus in surprise, or a 
sigh). 
o   These should be used sparingly to avoid repetitiveness. If not actual words, even non-
verbal sounds like a gasp, a chuckle, a grunt can do. They must match the character’s 
personality (e.g., Marcus’s grunt vs. Emily’s excited “oh!”). 
o   If budget allows, hire a couple of voice actors for key one-liners to add polish (could be 
done via indie voice acting communities affordably for small sets of lines). 
·       Quality and Consistency: Use high-quality sound samples (44.1kHz at least) to avoid 
tinny audio. All sounds should be normalized to a consistent volume so that some aren’t too 
loud. The style of sounds should match; likely realistic recordings for environmental 
sounds, and clean, not overly retro/gamey sounds for UI (we avoid 8-bit blips in a modern 
detective mood, unless used intentionally for something like a device interface). 
Audio Integration and Technical 
·       Spatial/2D Sound: Music will play as 2D (global) sound. Ambient sounds might be 2D 
global loops too, attached to scenes. If we have any in-game spatial scenario (maybe not 
likely since our gameplay is mostly 2D UI), we could attach a sound to an object (like a 
crackling server in a computer lab screen). 
·       Unity Audio Tools: Unity’s built-in audio mixer can be used to control group volumes 
(we’ll have channels for music, SFX, voices). This allows easy volume slider implementation 
and ducking (for example, reduce music volume slightly when a voice clip plays so it’s 
audible). 
·       Performance: All audio files will be compressed appropriately for mobile (likely using 
ADPCM or Vorbis compression). We’ll stream longer music tracks to save memory, and 
preload short frequent SFX to ensure no latency. 
·       User Control: Provide options to adjust music and SFX volumes independently (some 
players like to lower music or mute it and keep SFX, etc.). Also a mute all option. Ensure 
these settings save between sessions. 
·       Lip-Sync / Timing: If we include short voice exclamations, ensure they trigger at 
correct times with the dialogue. Even if we don’t have full VO, aligning text appearance 
speed with an implied speaking pace can make it feel more natural. The sound of a gunshot 
should coincide exactly with whatever visual cues or text indicates it. 
The Emotional Role of Audio 
Remembering the lens that “Music is the language of the soul, and as such, it speaks to 
players on a deep level” – our audio should enhance the emotional narrative: 
·       When the player solves a case (a victory moment), a triumphant yet slightly 
melancholic theme could play, giving a sense of accomplishment but also weight (since 
these are serious crimes). 
·       In moments of danger or urgency, ramp up tempo and dissonance to create anxiety for 
the player, prompting them to solve the puzzle faster if needed. 
·       Use silence strategically: sometimes cutting the music (or using very minimal sound) 
can make a scene feel tense or poignant, such as when a shocking revelation is made in the 
story. 
By paying attention to audio, we aim for the player to not only see and play the detective 
story, but also hear it come alive. Good audio will make merging more satisfying (through 
instant feedback sounds) and narrative more engaging (through mood setting and 
occasional voiced personality). It elevates the overall quality and helps True Crime Merge 
stand out as a polished experience. 
Character design 
 
Ally Quinn 
The game features a diverse cast of characters inhabiting Havenbay City, including allies, 
suspects, and antagonists. Each character has a detailed backstory, defined personality, and 
specific relationships with other characters that drive the narrative forward. 
Episodes-Brainstorm (NOT FOR USE YET) 
📝 Reusable System Prompt for Havenbay Crime Stories (Episodes) 
You are a creative writing assistant tasked with producing short crime fiction stories 
(~1000 words) set in the fictional, noir-inspired city of Havenbay. The user will specify 
the type of crime (e.g., kidnapping, political corruption, art theft, biohazard attack). You 
must adapt the story around that crime, using the established Havenbay setting and 
character bible. 
 
🎭 Tone & Style 
• Noir, suspenseful, cinematic — think CSI, Law & Order, True Detective. 
• A balance of procedural detail (forensics, investigation, clues) and character drama 
(personal stakes, corruption, moral gray areas). 
• Hooks should grab the reader immediately and sustain tension with ticking clocks, 
reversals, and cliffhanger-style beats. 
• The atmosphere must feel distinctly Havenbay: rain-slick streets, fog-drenched 
harbors, neon against decay, corruption under every deal. 

 
📚 Story Structure (always include these beats) 
1. Opening Hook – The crime occurs or is discovered in a striking way (body, abduction, 
poisoned letter, theft, etc.). 
2. The Victim & Stakes – Introduce the victim (a public figure, community member, or 
symbolic target) and why it matters. 
3. Investigation & Clues – Forensics, authorities, and Havenbay characters analyze 
evidence, interview suspects, or discover trails. 
4. Race Against Time – Introduce a ticking clock: the victim’s life, a deadline before 
exposure, a heist countdown. 
5. Breakthrough or Twist – A discovery, mislead, or reversal that shifts the direction of 
the story. 
6. Confrontation / Resolution – The culprit is revealed, their motive uncovered, and the 
immediate crisis resolved (but not always neatly). 
7. Cliffhanger or Fallout – End with a chilling warning, unresolved thread, or hint at 
deeper corruption. 
 
🧩 Story Requirements 
• Crime Type: [swap in user’s choice: e.g., kidnapping, pathogen-by-mail, art forgery, 
corporate sabotage]. 
• Victim/Target: A public figure, institution, or group tied to Havenbay’s lore 
(councillor, journalist, artist, dockworkers, etc.). 
• Culprit: Must have a motive (revenge, corruption, desperation, greed, cover-up). 
• Why: Explain why the victim was targeted and what the criminal hoped to achieve. 
• Evidence Trail: Incorporate forensics (soil, fibers, digital data, toxins, etc.) and 
investigative work (interviews, archives, financials). 
• Havenbay Texture: Anchor the story in known districts, landmarks, and 
atmospherics (Stonebridge Viaduct, Rivermouth, Highcliff Heights, etc.). 
• Characters: Weave in canon figures (e.g., Ally Quinn, Mo Callahan, Sgt. Del Cruz, Priya 
Shah) as investigators, allies, or emotional anchors. 
 
🚫 Constraints 
• Do not retell existing CSI/L&O plots verbatim. Inspiration is fine, but the crime and 
resolution must feel fresh. 
• Keep it ≈1000 words for pacing. 
• Respect the established Havenbay lore and tone. 
 
   Example Customization: 
• Crime Type: Kidnapping. 
• Victim: Havenbay University professor. 
• Why: He uncovered falsified redevelopment data. 
• Urgency: The professor is trapped in a location flooding with water — 6 hours left. 
• Resolution: Team finds him via soil analysis + missing CCTV feeds. Ends with discovery 
of files linking City Hall to a wider scheme. 
 
This template can generate an infinite range of self-contained Havenbay “episodes” that 
feel like noir crime drama, with recurring characters and an expanding city mythology. 
The Letter 
The rain was already coming down when the package arrived at the Havenbay Gazette. 
The receptionist thought nothing of it: brown paper, no return address, the kind of 
anonymous mail Arthur Finch got every week. 
But when Arthur tore it open in his office, a puff of fine white powder rose into the 
lamplight. He froze. His pulse hammered. 
Within an hour, the Gazette building was cordoned off in yellow tape, sirens bouncing off 
Civic Row’s marble facades. Reporters and interns were herded into quarantine vans, 
Arthur among them, sweating under harsh UV lamps. 
Dr. Priya Shah, Havenbay’s forensic scientist, was first on scene. She adjusted her mask, 
peering at the powder under portable spectro lights. The chemical signature flared red. 
“Not anthrax,” she said, “but close. Ricin. A single grain inhaled could shut down organs. If 
Finch breathed it in, the clock’s already ticking.” 
 
The Countdown 
At the precinct, Sgt. Del Cruz slammed his fist on the evidence table. “Ricin isn’t random. 
This isn’t some crank mailing flour. Whoever sent this wanted Finch dead — and wanted us 
to know it.” 
Ally Quinn’s recorder blinked as she stood in the corner. “Arthur’s been digging into 
redevelopment graft for weeks. If he was silenced, the city loses the only paper still telling 
the truth.” 
Del scowled. “Then we find the sender before the toxin finds him.” 
Dr. Lionel Cortez, the medical examiner, reviewed Finch’s vitals from the quarantine unit. 
“We’ve got four hours before organ collapse. Less, if exposure was heavy. Antidotes exist, 
but only if we know the preparation strain.” 
Priya nodded grimly. “We need to trace the source. Ricin isn’t easy to come by. The bean 
residue, castor byproducts — I’ll know once I get a clean sample.” 
 
The Clues 
Mo Callahan paced outside the Rusty Anchor, rain dripping from her coat brim. She’d seen 
plenty of vendettas in Havenbay, but this was different — surgical, public. She made calls. 
By nightfall, Alex Vega cracked open postal routing data. “The package was dropped into a 
street box on Orchard Steps, no cameras, no prints. But — the stamps? They’re older issue. 
Discontinued three years ago.” 
Priya compared fibers from the envelope to her lab database. “Cheap Manila stock. But the 
glue traces? Industrial. Rivermouth Industrial uses that exact adhesive in their packaging 
plants.” 
Ally’s voice caught. “Arthur was about to publish his exposé on Rivermouth contracts. 
Developers were paying off inspectors to ignore toxic waste spills.” 
Del’s jaw tightened. “So someone in Rivermouth sent a message — shut up, or choke on 
your own words.” 
 
The Break 
Arthur’s condition worsened. Quarantined behind glass, his skin shone with fever. He 
scrawled notes on a clipboard for Ally: Pier 13 files. Names. Voss tied in. His handwriting 
shook, but the message was clear: Dante Voss, the private security mogul, was on the take. 
Priya stormed into the lab with a breakthrough. “Trace isotopes in the ricin — they’re 
unique. Whoever prepared this used a makeshift extraction still, not a professional lab. 
That narrows it down.” 
Alex pulled up utility records. “One Rivermouth address shows irregular power spikes, 
midnight hours. An abandoned warehouse off Foundry Lane.” 
Del grabbed his sidearm. “That’s our cookhouse.” 
 
The Warehouse 
The team swept through the derelict warehouse. Rain hammered its corrugated roof, water 
seeping through cracks. Inside, long tables sagged under makeshift lab gear — glass stills, 
stained filters, castor bean husks spilling from burlap sacks. 
And in the corner: boxes of pre-addressed envelopes. The next targets. 
Ally lifted one. “These were ready to go out. Journalists. Union leaders. Anyone opposing 
redevelopment.” 
Mo’s voice was low. “This isn’t just an attack. It’s a purge.” 
Del’s flashlight beam caught a torn notebook. Scribbled inside was a single name 
underlined three times: Hart. Councillor Evelyn Hart, the city’s polished face of “progress.” 
 
The Suspect 
They found him upstairs — a gaunt man in a torn parka, trying to torch the files. Del tackled 
him hard, cuffing his wrists. 
“Name’s Calvin Rourke,” Del said after a quick ID. “Ex-chemist at Rivermouth Foundry. 
Fired during cutbacks. Lost his pension.” 
Rourke sneered. “While the suits got fat, my daughter choked on refinery air. They bury us 
alive in toxins every day. Why shouldn’t I return the favor?” 
Priya searched the stills. “This matches the ricin strain. He made it here.” 
Del pressed harder. “Then why target Finch?” 
Rourke’s eyes flicked to the burning bins. “Because he was about to print what everyone 
else ignored. I couldn’t let him out the story — not before they listened. Fear’s the only 
way.” 
 
The Race 
Back at the lab, Priya sifted through the seized samples. Each preparation had subtle 
differences. Only one matched the powder sent to the Gazette. 
“This is it,” she said, handing the vial to Cortez. “We can synthesize a targeted antidote.” 
In the quarantine chamber, Arthur drifted in and out, skin grey, lips cracked. The antidote 
coursed through his veins as minutes ticked by. 
Then — a gasp. He bolted upright, coughing violently, color slowly returning to his cheeks. 
Ally pressed her palm to the glass, relief washing over her. Arthur managed a rasped 
whisper: “Print it. Everything. Don’t let them bury this.” 
 
The Fallout 
By dawn, the Gazette’s front page blared: “Poison by Mail: Rivermouth Corruption Exposed.” 
Arthur’s byline stood bold, his voice refusing to be silenced. 
Rourke was booked, but the envelopes left a deeper scar. He had dozens ready, names that 
would have paralyzed Havenbay’s few honest voices. 
Mo poured drinks for the team at the Rusty Anchor that night. The city outside still dripped 
rain, but inside the amber light was warm. 
Arthur raised his glass weakly. “They tried to kill the truth. But Havenbay still breathes.” 
Ally clicked her recorder shut. “And so does the story.” 
 
Word Count: ~1,025 
 
    Pathogen: Ricin, a deadly toxin from castor beans. 
    Victim: Arthur Finch, Gazette journalist. 
    Sender: Calvin Rourke, embittered ex-chemist from Rivermouth, motivated by 
vengeance and desperation. 
    Why: To silence corruption stories and force the city to pay attention through fear. 
Ally Quinn First Case Story Ideas 
1. The Borrowed Life 
Elevator Pitch: Ally investigates when a local barista discovers someone has been living 
her entire digital life—using her credit cards, posting as her on social media, even dating 
using her photos. But when Ally tracks down the identity thief, she finds a teenage runaway 
whose desperation to escape an abusive home led her to “borrow” someone else’s perfect 
life. The case becomes about helping both victim and perpetrator, while uncovering a 
network that helps kids disappear. 
Hook: Simple concept everyone can relate to, introduces Ally’s empathetic approach, clear 
digital investigation mechanics. 
2. The Time Capsule Mystery 
Elevator Pitch: A construction crew demolishing an old Havenbay school discovers a time 
capsule that was supposed to be opened in 2025—but it contains photos of recent crimes 
that haven’t been reported yet. Ally races to prevent the crimes while trying to figure out 
who planted evidence of future events in a decades-old capsule. The solution reveals a 
teacher who’s been documenting ongoing abuse at the school and left the evidence where it 
would eventually be found. 
Hook: Mind-bending premise, clear ticking clock, introduces Ally’s investigative skills with 
a puzzle that seems impossible. 
3. The Ghost Student 
Elevator Pitch: Havenbay University receives tuition payments for a student who doesn’t 
exist—every record shows Maya Chen is enrolled, but no one has ever seen her in class, her 
dorm room is empty, and her ID photo is obviously fake. Ally discovers Maya is a real 
person who’s been kidnapped and held by her obsessive ex-boyfriend, who’s been 
maintaining her “normal” life to prevent anyone from looking for her. The investigation 
becomes a race to find Maya before her carefully constructed facade collapses. 
Hook: Immediately intriguing premise, introduces university setting, clear victim to save, 
showcases different investigation methods. 
4. The Replacement Child 
Elevator Pitch: A mother contacts Ally convinced that the teenage son who returned from 
summer camp isn’t actually her child—same face, same body, but different personality, 
different memories, different habits. Ally initially suspects psychological trauma, but 
discovers the boy is actually a runaway who looks identical to the woman’s real son. The 
case reveals a dark family secret: the real son died in an accident the family covered up, and 
this boy represents their desperate attempt to avoid facing their grief. 
Hook: Psychological thriller element, explores themes of identity and family secrets, 
emotionally compelling. 
5. The Perfect Neighbor 
Elevator Pitch: When a new neighbor moves into the apartment next to Ally, everything 
about him seems too perfect—perfect job, perfect references, perfect answers to every 
question. Ally’s investigation reveals he’s actually a private investigator hired by her late 
father’s editor to watch her and report on her activities. But when the man’s real identity 
emerges, Ally discovers he’s been protecting her from threats she didn’t know existed, 
leading to the first hints about her father’s true death. 
Hook: Personal stakes for Ally, introduces series mythology organically, paranoia-driven 
investigation. 
6. The Inheritance Scam 
Elevator Pitch: Elderly residents of a Havenbay nursing home are signing over their 
inheritances to a charming young man claiming to be a distant relative. Ally goes 
undercover as a volunteer to investigate, but discovers the scammer is actually the 
grandson of one of the residents—a boy who was abandoned by his family years ago and is 
now manipulating their guilt and dementia to claim what he believes should have been his. 
The case forces Ally to navigate complex family dynamics and elder abuse. 
Hook: Undercover elements, clear victims to protect, morally complex antagonist, 
introduces vulnerable population. 
7. The Vanishing Act 
Elevator Pitch: A street magician performing at Harbor Ward disappears mid-trick, 
leaving behind only his hat and a crowd of confused spectators. Security cameras show he 
was there one second and gone the next. Ally’s investigation reveals an elaborate plan to 
fake his own death and escape mounting debts to dangerous people. But when she finds 
him, she discovers he’s actually trying to protect his daughter from his criminal past, and 
his “death” was meant to make her safe. 
Hook: Impossible crime setup, introduces Harbor Ward setting, themes of sacrifice and 
redemption. 
8. The Wrong Room 
Elevator Pitch: A hotel guest checks into the Havenbay Harbor Inn and finds the previous 
occupant’s belongings still in the room—clothes, medication, personal photos—as if 
someone just vanished. The hotel claims no one was ever registered to that room. Ally’s 
investigation reveals a human trafficking operation using the hotel as a waystation, but the 
“previous occupant” turns out to be a federal agent who discovered the operation and had 
to disappear fast, leaving behind clues for whoever found them. 
Hook: Confined setting for investigation, introduces trafficking theme that can develop in 
later cases, federal agent connection adds stakes. 
9. The Study Group 
Elevator Pitch: A Havenbay University study group reports that one of their members, 
quiet scholarship student Emma Santos, has been sending them increasingly disturbing 
messages about being watched and followed. When they can’t reach her, they hire Ally to 
check on her. Ally discovers Emma uncovered an academic fraud ring where wealthy 
students pay to have their assignments completed by struggling scholarship recipients. 
Emma was killed for threatening to expose the operation, but her death was staged to look 
like suicide. 
Hook: College setting, relatable characters, academic fraud is understandable crime, 
introduces class inequality themes. 
10. The Memory Thief 
Elevator Pitch: An elderly man with early-stage dementia claims someone is stealing his 
memories—breaking into his house and removing photo albums, letters, and mementos. 
His family thinks it’s the disease, but Ally discovers that his estranged daughter is 
systematically erasing evidence of his abusive past before his grandson can learn the truth 
about his family history. The case becomes about confronting inherited trauma and 
deciding what family secrets should stay buried. 
Hook: Unique crime concept, emotional family drama, introduces themes about truth 
vs. kindness, features elderly protagonist. 
 
Recommended: “The Ghost Student” 
This concept works best as a series opener because: 
• Immediately intriguing premise that hooks players from the start 
• Clear victim to save creates emotional investment 
• University setting introduces young adult themes and locations 
• Straightforward investigation with logical progression of clues 
• Introduces key investigation mechanics (digital records, interviews, surveillance) 
• Morally clear antagonist without requiring complex backstory 
• Sets up world and tone without overwhelming new players 
• Personal stakes without requiring knowledge of Ally’s father’s case 
• Satisfying resolution that can stand alone while hinting at larger mysteries 
The Kestrel Point Disappearance - Story Synopsis 
Act 1: The Evidence 
Ally begins her podcast investigating Lena Kovac’s disappearance from Kestrel Point 
lighthouse. While the police ruled it a probable suicide, Ally discovers Lena’s waterlogged 
phone in tidal rocks below the lighthouse—missed during the initial search. 
Working with Sgt. Del Cruz, who secretly provides lab access, they recover deleted photos 
from the phone’s memory card. The images show Lena’s art sketches, but the final 
photos—taken just hours before her disappearance—reveal something shocking: a late-
night boat transferring unmarked cargo containers near the lighthouse, with clear shots of 
license plates and faces. 
The metadata proves these photos were taken at 11:47 PM, but Lena’s car wasn’t found 
until the next morning. Someone had her for nearly twelve hours. 
Act 2: The Trail 
Lena’s credit card records show her last transaction at Bay Bean Roasters on Harbor 
Street—a coffee shop that delivers to City Hall and other downtown offices. Ally interviews 
the owner, who remembers Lena asking strange questions about their delivery routes and 
whether they ever made night runs. 
The owner mentions Conrad Marlow, their part-time driver, acted nervous after Lena’s 
visit and called in sick the next day. When Ally tries to find Conrad, she discovers he’s 
already quit and moved out of his apartment. 
Del Cruz traces Conrad’s van through traffic cameras. The footage shows him driving 
toward the industrial district the night Lena disappeared—with a passenger whose 
silhouette matches Lena’s height and build. 
Act 3: The Hunt 
Following the van’s route, Ally and Del Cruz discover Conrad is living in a converted 
shipping container at Pier 7 warehouse complex. But when they arrive, they find evidence 
that someone else has been calling the shots: encrypted burner phones, detailed 
surveillance photos of Lena taken weeks before her disappearance, and a printed email 
with the signature “F.M.”—the Ferryman. 
A search of the warehouse reveals Lena’s art supplies and a journal entry in her 
handwriting: “They know I have the photos. Conrad says they just want to talk, but I can 
see it in his eyes. He’s scared of them too.” 
Act 4: The Confrontation 
Conrad returns unexpectedly while Ally and Del Cruz are searching. Cornered and 
panicked, he reveals the truth: Lena’s lighthouse photos captured a arms smuggling 
operation run through City Hall connections. The Ferryman’s network needed those photos 
destroyed and Lena silenced—permanently. 
But Conrad couldn’t go through with murder. Instead, he’s been hiding Lena in an 
abandoned ferry terminal across the harbor, bringing her food and trying to figure out how 
to get her out safely. The problem: the Ferryman’s people are watching all the exits, and 
Conrad’s window for keeping Lena alive is closing fast. 
Conrad reveals that Lena overheard him on a phone call earlier that day. The Ferryman has 
lost patience—if the photos aren’t recovered and Lena eliminated by midnight, Conrad and 
his sister (who they’re holding as insurance) will both disappear. 
Act 5: The Rescue 
The rescue becomes a race against time. Del Cruz calls for backup, but the nearest units are 
twenty minutes away. Ally and Conrad must reach the ferry terminal before the Ferryman’s 
enforcer arrives. 
At the terminal, they find Lena weak but alive, hidden in an old maintenance room. 
However, as they try to escape, they encounter the Ferryman’s lieutenant—a cold 
professional who reveals that Lena’s photos show more than just smuggling. They captured 
evidence of a City Hall official directly coordinating the operation. 
The confrontation turns deadly when the enforcer decides all three witnesses need to 
disappear. In the struggle, Ally manages to activate the ferry terminal’s emergency 
beacon—a signal that brings Del Cruz and her backup racing to the scene. 
Act 6: The Revelation 
With Lena safe and Conrad in protective custody, the real scope of the conspiracy emerges. 
The recovered photos don’t just show arms smuggling—they reveal a systematic operation 
using city infrastructure to move illegal cargo. The boats, the warehouse, even Conrad’s 
coffee delivery van were all part of a network designed to look legitimate while facilitating 
crime. 
But when Ally tries to follow the paper trail to City Hall, she discovers the official in Lena’s 
photos has been found dead in his car—apparent suicide, with a cryptic note apologizing 
for “letting the city down.” 
Dr. Shah’s analysis of the note reveals it was written under duress. Someone cleaned house 
before the investigation could reach the top. 
The Hook 
As Ally records her podcast conclusion, she receives a voicemail from an unknown number. 
The message is brief: “Ms. Quinn, your father photographed the same boats thirteen years 
ago. His accident wasn’t random. Room 312, City Hall. Come alone, or more people 
disappear.” 
In the background, clear and unmistakable, is the sound of a ferry horn. 
Ally checks her father’s old files and finds them: blurry photographs of similar nighttime 
transfers, notes about City Hall connections, and a business card for someone listed only as 
“Harbor Authority—Maritime Security.” The card has never been in any official city 
directory. 
The Lena Kovac case is closed, but it has opened a door to something much larger—a 
network that has been operating in Havenbay for over a decade, with connections reaching 
into the highest levels of city government. 
And they know Ally is getting close. 
Game Integration Points 
• Evidence: Lena’s phone with recoverable photo data 
• Minigame: Photo recovery and enhancement software 
• Investigation Loop: Credit cards → witness interviews → surveillance footage → 
warehouse search 
• Human Antagonist: Conrad as conflicted accomplice 
• Ticking Clock: Midnight deadline for Lena’s elimination 
• Ferryman Tease: Encrypted communications and cleanup operation 
• City Hall Setup: Dead official and Room 312 invitation 
• Series Arc: Connection to Thomas Quinn’s investigation and death 
The story provides a complete case resolution while establishing the larger conspiracy that 
will drive the season, with clear gameplay mechanics and escalating stakes that demand 
the player’s continued engagement. 
Game Characters 
Thomas Quinn 
 

Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Thomas Edward Quinn 
Age: 43 (at time of death; appears in flashbacks, recordings, and memories) 
Occupation: Investigative journalist (Havenbay Gazette, later independent) 
Game Archetype: The Fallen Mentor — the inspiration and mystery at the heart of Ally’s 
investigation 
Thomas Quinn was Havenbay’s most dogged investigative journalist — relentless, 
principled, and willing to chase stories others feared. He built his reputation exposing 
union corruption, dockside smuggling, and shady redevelopment deals. But the closer he 
drew to the Ferryman and Councillor Evelyn Hart’s network, the more isolated he became. 
Officially, he died in a late-night car crash during a storm, his laptop missing from the 
scene. To the Gazette and the city, his death was a tragic accident. To Gerald Quinn, his 
father, it was an assassination disguised as misfortune. 
For Ally, Thomas is both wound and beacon — the father who left too soon, and the voice 
she hears when she questions if the fight is worth it. His notes, recordings, and unfinished 
stories form the breadcrumbs that pull Ally deeper into the conspiracy. In truth, Thomas 
Quinn’s death is the inciting incident of Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge — his legacy turns 
every merge of evidence into a step toward justice. 
Appearance 
• Height: 6’0" (183 cm) 
• Build: Lean but strong; the wiry endurance of a man who never stopped chasing leads. 
• Face & Hair: Strong jaw, slightly crooked nose (broken in his twenties covering a dock 
strike); lined from stress but quick to soften when smiling. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: 3rd-generation American of English/French descent; fair skin 
with faint freckles. 
• Eyes: Hazel, restless and sharp, constantly searching. 
• Hair: Dark brown, slightly tousled, beginning to grey at the temples. 
• Facial Hair: Usually light stubble, rarely fully clean-shaven. 
• Skin Features: Small scar on his chin from a bar fight during a story; stress lines 
etched around his eyes. 
• Distinctive Features: Constantly carried a battered leather messenger bag full of 
notes; ink stains often on his fingers. 
• Clothing Style: Functional journalist gear — rumpled shirts, sports jackets, jeans. 
• Signature Outfit: White dress shirt with rolled-up sleeves, brown corduroy jacket, 
dark jeans, worn boots. 
• Accessories: Leather satchel with press badge, notepad, battered fountain pen (later 
kept by Helen, then Ally). 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Thomas Quinn, investigative journalist age 43, lean build, fair 
skin with faint freckles, hazel eyes, dark brown tousled hair with grey at 
temples, light stubble, wearing rumpled white shirt with sleeves rolled up, 
brown corduroy jacket, dark jeans and worn boots, carrying battered leather 
satchel with press badge and notepad, intense but kind expression, standing 
under a rain-slicked streetlamp at night with neon reflections on wet 
pavement, noir cinematic lighting, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel 
illustration --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Intense focus — eyes narrowed in thought. 
• Secondary Moods: Warm grin (with family), simmering anger (when confronting 
corruption), tired resignation (when worn down by obstacles). 
• Persona: Relentless truth-seeker; principled, stubborn, charismatic when he wanted 
to be, but often so absorbed in stories he neglected his own safety. 
• Props & Accessories: Always with a notepad, cassette recorder, and camera. 
• Signature Items: His fountain pen (later a keepsake for Helen and Ally); his 
messenger bag. 
• Environmental Cues: Newspaper office with clattering typewriters; late-night diner 
booths; rainy streets with him scribbling notes. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Dogged, principled, flawed idealist, journalist-as-detective, fallen 
hero. 
• Favourite Movie: All the President’s Men — his north star for investigative journalism. 
• Favourite Song: “The Times They Are A-Changin’” by Bob Dylan. 
• Favourite Colour: Deep brown — earthy, grounded, reliable. 
• Favourite Food: Black coffee and pie at all-night diners; lived on it during 
investigations. 
Gerald Quinn 
Profile 
Name: Gerald Quinn 
Age: 74 
Occupation: 
Retired Detective, Brookford PD 
• Spent ~40 years on the force, handling homicide and organised crime. 
• Now “officially retired,” but still consults informally — especially when Ally’s cases 
overlap with his old cold cases. 
• Known in-universe as a legend in the department, respected but sometimes resented 
for his unwillingness to compromise on integrity. 
Archetype: The Mentor / The Sage 
Provides Ally (and the player) with guidance, historical knowledge, and moral grounding. 
Gerald Quinn – Backstory 
Gerald Quinn has spent most of his life reading the heartbeat of Havenbay City—the 
tempo of docks at dawn, the hush of courthouse corridors, the way a neighbourhood goes 
quiet when someone powerful wants it that way. He joined the Havenbay PD young and 
stubborn, the kind of detective who took good notes, kept his shoes polished, and never 
learned how to look the other way. Over four decades he built a reputation for clean cases 
and careful patience, the sort that makes both criminals and politicians nervous. 
Gerald’s greatest pride was his son, Thomas Quinn—bright, principled, and determined to 
keep the family’s spine straight. When Thomas died in a suspicious car crash, the official 
story moved too fast: an accident report filed with strange timings, a traffic camera “under 
maintenance,” witnesses who suddenly couldn’t remember the light. Gerald recognized the 
shape of pressure on a file; he’d seen it before. He pushed back discreetly at first, then 
loudly enough to make enemies. The department called it grief. Gerald called it unfinished 
work. 
Retirement came dressed as a favour. The desk was cleared, the watch presented, and the 
message was clear: let it go. But Gerald never has. He still keeps notebooks—plates, 
names, routes—written in a small, steady hand. He’s certain the crash intersects with the 
same money that keeps reshaping Bayford block by block, and with the shadowy fixer 
people whisper about as the Ferryman. He doesn’t have the proof yet. What he has is the 
map in his head and the will to keep walking it. 
Gerald’s armour is an old detective’s discipline; his camouflage is an unexpectedly 
eccentric wardrobe—teal‑green textured suit, magenta shirt, a swirling tie that 
telegraphs confidence rather than concession. Behind the round wire‑rim glasses his eyes 
miss very little. He speaks softly, saves anger for the right moment, and crosses his arms 
when he’s decided you’re about to waste his time. 
His granddaughter Ally Quinn pulls him back into the streets he knows best. She carries 
Thomas’s resolve and Gerald’s method, wrapping both in a modern instinct for how stories 
move people. Gerald worries the city will eat her alive, the way it tries to eat anyone who 
insists on truth; he helps anyway. In quiet hours, he teaches her the old craft—what to 
write down, when to shut up, and how to spot a lie that looks like paperwork. In louder 
hours, he stands beside her, because the case that took his son is the same case they’re both 
chasing now—only bigger, older, and finally running out of places to hide. 
 
Appearance 
Lean but sturdy 
• Height: 5’10" (178 cm) 
• Build: Medium to slightly stout; solid, confident stance; still carries himself with quiet 
authority despite age 
Face & Hair 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Caucasian descent with lightly tanned skin 
• Eyes: Large, expressive, dark; slightly wide-set under arched brows 
• Hair: White-grey, wispy, short-medium length, tousled natural style 
• Facial Hair: Full, fluffy beard and moustache, white-grey (lighter than his skin tone) 
• Skin Features: Subtly rosy-tinted cheeks, weathered but lively 
• Distinctive Features: Round wire-rimmed glasses; strong, prominent nose; mouth 
often in a downturned but thoughtful expression 
Clothing Style 
• Signature Outfit: Vibrant teal/green textured suit with subtle scale-like pattern 
• Shirt & Tie: Magenta/pinkish-red shirt beneath, patterned tie with swirling orange, 
red, and blue tones 
• Accessories: Watch on left wrist; faint lapel pin on jacket 
• Style Notes: Sophisticated, slightly eccentric fashion sense, mixing old-world detective 
dignity with surprising bursts of colour 
Characteristics 
Expression & Persona 
• Default Expression: Serious, mouth downturned but not unfriendly 
• Secondary Moods: Thoughtful and wise; can flash warmth and humour when with 
Ally 
• Persona: A retired detective who balances gravitas with quirk — his eccentric style 
softens his otherwise imposing presence 
Props & Accessories 
• Signature Items: Old case file; round glasses; classic wristwatch 
• Environmental Cues: Posed with arms crossed, radiating self-assurance; framed in 
warm lamplight or cosy interiors that suggest wisdom and history 
Vibe & Keywords 
• Mentor, wise elder, eccentric detective, dignified yet colourful, bridge between classic 
noir and Ally’s modern world 
 
Ally Quinn 

 
Not Happy 
 
Inquisitive 

 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 

Arthur Finch 
 
Arthur Finch 
Profile 
Full Name: Arthur Elias Finch 
Age: 62 
Occupation 
• Former Role: Senior Investigative Journalist at the Havenbay Gazette. 
• Current Role: Semi-retired; works as an archivist, researcher, and quiet fixer. 
Maintains access to the Gazette’s archives, keeps his own extensive personal files, and 
occasionally contributes to exposés under pseudonyms. 
• Public Face: Considered a relic of “old journalism” by younger reporters, but behind 
the scenes he’s still respected (and sometimes feared) as the keeper of Havenbay’s 
skeletons. 
• Archetype: The Archivist / The Keeper of Secrets 
• Acts as a knowledge hub for Ally, unlocking background lore, forgotten scandals, and 
connections between cases. 
– Provides archival documents, old clippings, and historical evidence as 
merge items (e.g., Old Case File → Cross-referenced Article → Smoking Gun 
Evidence). 

– Serves as the “Memory” archetype — he preserves the city’s institutional 
knowledge and reminds Ally of the bigger picture. 
• Narrative Role: 
– Gives Ally credibility by connecting her findings to historical patterns. 
– Pushes her toward dangerous truths, but warns her of repeating her father’s 
mistakes. 
– Represents the theme of truth vs. time — what gets remembered, what gets 
buried, and who decides. 
Arthur Finch – Backstory 
Arthur Finch began his career at the Havenbay Gazette in the late 1980s, back when 
investigative journalism was the city’s conscience. He exposed corrupt dockside union 
bosses, crooked aldermen, and a housing scandal that almost toppled City Hall. Over time, 
as media conglomerates bought up local outlets and corporate donors muzzled editorial 
freedom, Arthur retreated to the archives — but never stopped collecting information. 
He knew Thomas Quinn well, occasionally mentoring him and feeding him stories. After 
Thomas’ death, Arthur quietly suspected foul play but lacked enough proof to publish. 
Instead, he became the unofficial keeper of Havenbay’s buried stories. 
Now semi-retired, Arthur lives above a used bookstore and still maintains access to the 
Gazette archives — where he trades in clippings, court documents, and whispered leads. 
Ally seeks him out both for guidance and for access to the institutional memory of the city. 
 
Appearance 
Height: 6’0” (183 cm) 
Build: Lean but upright, surprisingly tall and imposing despite his age. Carries himself with 
old-school dignity, using posture and presence rather than bulk. 
 
👤 Face & Hair 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Mediterranean heritage (Italian/Greek descent), olive-toned 
skin, still carrying warmth despite his years. 
• Eyes: Hazel-green, sharp and penetrating; deep crow’s feet at the corners, giving him 
an air of both wisdom and fatigue. 
• Hair: Dark silver, swept back neatly with just a few rebellious strands; kept longer 
than average, with an air of the academic. 
• Facial Hair: Trimmed salt-and-pepperdefined moustache, evoking a cultured but 
slightly eccentric style. 
• Skin Features: Sun-weathered, with faint liver spots and a permanent tan line at the 
collar. He looks like a man who has spent much of his life outdoors chasing stories. 
• Distinctive Features: 
– Narrow, intelligent face framed by angular cheekbones. 
– Thin-rimmed rectangular glasses (rather than round). 
– A low, thoughtful smile rather than a frown; voice said to be “velvet over 
gravel.” 
 
👔 Clothing Style 
This Arthur favors classical minimalism — still professional, but less flamboyant than the 
teal-green suit version. 
• Signature Outfit: A charcoal three-piece suit, well-tailored but clearly worn for 
decades; fabric has softened with age. 
• Shirt & Tie: Pale cream shirt with a dark burgundy tie, usually loosened as though he’s 
been working late. 
• Accessories: 
– A polished silver fountain pen always clipped to his inner pocket. 
– Pocket watch with an inscription from his late wife. 
• Style Notes: Projects gravitas and restraint — his style speaks to a man who values 
tradition and continuity. His subtler wardrobe marks him as someone who prefers not 
to draw unnecessary attention, letting his words and knowledge carry the weight 
instead. 
 
🎭 Overall Impression 
This alternate Arthur feels more like a dignified, scholarly mentor — less eccentric than 
the vibrant teal-suited version, but still unmistakably distinguished. Where the first Arthur 
leans into eccentric journalist-professor energy, this one embodies serious, old-guard 
intellectual weight — the kind of man who might be mistaken for a judge or statesman 
until you see the ink on his fingers. 
😐 Default Expression 
• A thoughtful, slightly downturned mouth with sharp, watchful eyes. 
• Looks as though he’s perpetually mid-analysis, weighing truth against memory. 
   Secondary Moods 
• Wry amusement — a dry smirk when exposing hypocrisy. 
• Weary sadness — when Thomas Quinn’s death or Havenbay’s corruption weighs on 
him. 
• Determined steel — when he decides the truth must come out, no matter the cost. 
     Persona 
• The Archivist / Keeper of Secrets. 
• Wise, principled, a little aloof. Appears cranky at times, but has a deep reservoir of 
loyalty and integrity. 
• Functions as a mentor archetype to Ally, though not always gently — he pushes her 
to prove herself. 
 
    Props & Accessories 
• Round wire-rimmed glasses (alternate rectangular version locked in). 
• Silver fountain pen, always in his suit pocket. 
• Pocket watch, an heirloom with sentimental weight. 
• Ink-stained notebooks filled with clippings and scribbles. 
      Signature Items 
• Reporter’s notebook (his true weapon). 
• A battered fountain pen, still used despite modern tech. 
• The Gazette archives key, granting him access to files others can’t reach. 
 
                Environmental Cues 
• Found in dusty news archives or dim city diners with stacks of papers. 
• Surrounded by file cabinets, yellowed newsprint, or lamplight spilling over 
typewritten notes. 
• When in public, spotted near City Hall protests, courthouse steps, or train stations 
— always watching history repeat. 
 
    Vibe & Keywords 
• Noir Elder, Scholar, Truth-Seeker, Archivist, Cynical Mentor, Keeper of Memory, 
Quiet Resistance. 
• Atmosphere: lamplight, dust motes, cigarette smoke curling in the background, muted 
tones with a splash of deep burgundy. 
 
            Favourite Movie 
• All the President’s Men — his ritualistic annual rewatch, a reminder of journalism’s 
purpose. 
    Favourite Song 
• “A Day in the Life” — The Beatles. He considers it “journalism in music form,” 
fragmented truths stitched into one narrative. 
      Favourite Colour 
• Burgundy — dignified, deep, and enduring, like his personality. 
             Favourite Food 
• Clam chowder with black coffee, late at night in a Harbor Ward diner. Simple, 
practical, comforting — the fuel of deadlines and midnight revelations. 
 
         In short: Arthur Finch’s persona radiates dignified weariness mixed with stubborn 
integrity. He is the memory of Havenbay, with props and habits that make him instantly 
recognizable and archetypally noir. 
 
Expression range sample 

 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 

Alex Vega 
 
Arthur Finch 
Profile 
Full Name: Alexander “Alex” Vega 
Age: 29 
Occupation: Freelance hacker / digital investigator / underground info-broker ally to Ally 
Game Archetype: The Trickster Tech — clever wildcard, bridging digital underworld and 
investigation 
Alex Vega grew up in Havenbay’s working-class Harbor Ward, son of a dockworker and a 
mother who cleaned offices in Highcliff Heights. When automation killed jobs at the docks, 
Alex turned his knack for computers into a hustle — at first cracking arcade machines for free 
games, later scraping data and selling “ghost accounts” to kids who wanted to slip under the 
radar online. 
By his early twenties, Alex was known in the city’s digital alleys as a go-to fixer: the person 
who could erase a file, break into a locked server, or trace a missing phone. He flirted with 
both sides — sometimes working for Silas Vex, sometimes for investigative journalists. His 
moral compass is skewed but not broken: he won’t touch jobs involving kids or human 
trafficking, and he despises corrupt cops and politicians. 
Alex first crossed paths with Ally Quinn when she asked him to decrypt her father’s old 
laptop — a job no one else could crack. Intrigued by her conviction (and maybe reminded 
of his own hunger for truth), he became her digital partner-in-crime. Where Gerald Quinn 
relied on old-school instincts, Alex supplies the modern edge, feeding Ally data leaks, 
hacked CCTV, and encrypted whispers from Havenbay’s underbelly. 

Despite the cocky grin, Alex hides deep anxiety about being disposable in a city where 
information is currency. He trusts very few people, but once someone earns his loyalty, 
he’ll burn servers and bridges to protect them. 
 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’9" (175 cm) 
• Build: Lean, wiry — built for late nights and quick escapes, not brawls. 
• Face & Hair: Sharp cheekbones, slightly gaunt from erratic sleep, perpetual faint 
stubble; mischievous half-smile. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Latino (Puerto Rican descent), medium olive skin. 
• Eyes: Dark brown, with a restless, darting energy. 
• Hair: Black, undercut style, often hidden under a hoodie or beanie. 
• Facial Hair: Light stubble, deliberately unkempt. 
• Skin Features: Faint dark circles under eyes from constant screen time. 
• Distinctive Features: Small tattoo of a circuit pattern on his left wrist; chipped front 
tooth (from a street fight as a teen). 
• Clothing Style: Street-hacker casual — hoodies, layered jackets, scuffed sneakers, 
fingerless gloves. 
• Signature Outfit: Black hoodie with neon glitch motif, slim dark jeans, worn leather 
satchel with cables spilling out. 
• Accessories: Laptop plastered with stickers (“Encrypt Everything,” pirate skull, old 
band logos), modified smartphone with cracked screen, USB drives worn like dog tags. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Alex Vega, Latino hacker, age 29, lean build, mischievous smirk, 
olive skin, black undercut hair, faint stubble, dark brown eyes, wearing 
black hoodie with neon glitch pattern, scuffed sneakers, USB drives worn like 
dog tags, cluttered hacker den background glowing with neon green code and 
monitors, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel style, noir cyberpunk mood, 
cinematic lighting, moody atmosphere --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Half-grin smirk, eyes scanning for angles. 
• Secondary Moods: Focused (when coding/hacking), defensive (when trust 
questioned), fiery (when injustice hits close). 
• Persona: Charismatic misfit — equal parts trickster, ally, and rogue journalist. Prefers 
chaos to conformity but carries a deep loyalty to those he trusts. 
• Props & Accessories: Old headphones around neck; mechanical keyboard with 
missing keys; vape pen he fiddles with but rarely uses. 
• Signature Items: A flash drive he always carries, encrypted with something only he 
knows; neon green USB bracelet. 
• Environmental Cues: Usually in cluttered hacker dens — dual monitors glowing with 
code, pizza boxes, fan hums, neon light strips. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Clever, restless, glitchpunk, loyal rebel, information-as-currency, 
noir-cyber edge. 
• Favourite Movie: Hackers (1995) — equal parts ironic and aspirational. 
• Favourite Song: “Clint Eastwood” by Gorillaz — vibey, playful, but layered. 
• Favourite Colour: Electric green. 
• Favourite Food: Street tacos — cheap, fast, full of flavor. 
Moira “Mo” Callahan 
 
Mo Callahan 

Profile 
Full Name: Moira Callahan 
Age: 49 
Occupation: Proprietor of The Rusty Anchor, a dockside bar in Havenbay’s Harbor Ward. 
Keeper of local lore, secrets, and favors. 
Game Archetype: The Confidante / Neutral Ground Keeper 
• Maintains a safe harbor hub where cops, dockers, and hustlers can cross paths 
without it erupting into violence. 
• Acts as Gerald Quinn’s old friend and Ally’s “adopted auntie” figure, supplying 
grounded wisdom and discreet information. 
• Represents the city’s working-class backbone — survival, loyalty, and community 
resilience. 
 
 
Born and raised in Harbor Ward, Moira inherited The Rusty Anchor from her father, a 
longshoreman who opened it as a union watering hole. She transformed it into the ward’s 
living room: part pub, part town square, part confessional. She learned early how to read a 
room, break up fights, and keep secrets safe. 
She first crossed paths with Gerald Quinn decades ago, when he was still working the 
streets. They forged a friendship built on mutual respect — Gerald kept trouble out of her 
bar, and Mo gave him a neutral ground for leads. She also knew Thomas Quinn, often 
making sure the journalist ate when he buried himself in work. 
When Thomas died, Mo’s heart broke for Ally. She quietly looked out for her, the way 
Havenbay looks after its own. Now, as Ally digs into the city’s secrets, Mo provides 
introductions, warnings, and the occasional clue — but always with the reminder that 
Havenbay takes its pound of flesh from the reckless. 
The Rusty Anchor is more than a bar — it’s Havenbay’s unofficial embassy. 
Appearance 
Height: 5’6” (168 cm) 
 
Build: Sturdy, robust; strong from years of bar work. 
     Face & Hair 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Irish-American, fair complexion with freckles. 
• Eyes: Hazel-green; sharp and appraising, soften when she trusts you. 
• Hair: Dark auburn with streaks of silver, shoulder-length, tied back during shifts. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Weathered but lively, laugh lines, faint scar along jawline from a bar 
brawl. 
• Distinctive Features: Celtic knot tattoo on left wrist; steady, pragmatic presence. 
      Clothing Style 
• Signature Outfit: Worn leather jacket, bar apron, dark jeans, boots. 
• Shirt & Tie: Prefers henleys or plaid shirts; never wears a tie. 
• Accessories: Heavy key-ring (cellar/office), Claddagh ring, battered ledger book. 
• Style Notes: Practical dockside style, with sentimental Irish touches. 
🎭 Characteristics, Expression & Persona 
Default Expression: Half-smile that’s welcoming but never naïve. 
Secondary Moods: 
• Stern protectiveness when her patrons or staff are threatened. 
• Dry humor and teasing banter with old friends (especially Gerald). 
• Quiet melancholy when Havenbay’s corruption touches her community. 
Persona: 
• The Harbor Confidante. She knows everyone worth knowing and what they owe. 
• Loyal, pragmatic, streetwise — she’ll help Ally, but only if Ally respects the balance of 
trust and survival in Havenbay. 
    Props & Accessories 
• Bar towel, old brass bottle opener from her father. 
• Shoebox of bar napkins scrawled with cryptic names and notes. 
      Signature Items 
• The keys to The Rusty Anchor. 
• A reserved booth where sensitive conversations happen. 
• A framed photo of a younger Mo and Gerald raising glasses after a closed case. 
                Environmental Cues 
• Amber-lit bar interior, wood-paneled with maritime relics. 
• Smell of whiskey and chowder, gulls crying outside. 
• Patrons range from off-duty cops to dockhands, all minding manners under Mo’s 
watch. 
    Vibe & Keywords 
• Confidante, Streetwise, Neutral Ground, Dockside Lore, Trusted Keeper, Harbor 
Grit. 
            Personal Details 
• Favourite Movie: The Commitments — loves its scrappy community spirit. 
• Favourite Song: “Dreams” — Fleetwood Mac, often played when the bar closes. 
• Favourite Colour: Sea-glass green. 
• Favourite Food: Shepherd’s pie, paired with a pint. 
Nova Skye 
 
Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Nova Skye (born Naomi Lachance; “Nova” is her chosen artist name) 
Age: 27 
Occupation: Street artist, activist, underground informant 
Game Archetype: The Rebel Visionary — truth-teller through art, weaving subculture into 
investigation 
Born Naomi Lachance in Montreal, Nova moved to Havenbay with her family when she was 
a teenager, her parents chasing better opportunities. While they sought stability, Nova 
found identity in chaos — spray paint, protest movements, and late-night art jams under 
viaducts. 

By her early twenties, she had transformed into Nova Skye, a street-artist persona 
blending luminous color with cryptic symbols. Her murals are more than art — they double 
as coded messages for activists and whistleblowers, sometimes hiding literal clues within 
layers of paint. 
City Hall calls her a vandal, Dante Voss calls her a nuisance, but to Havenbay’s underdogs 
she is a cultural force, painting the city alive. Ally Quinn first encounters her through a 
mural tagged with symbols only someone with an investigative eye could decode. Their 
alliance is uneasy but powerful: Nova pushes boundaries, while Ally seeks truth. 
To the people of Havenbay, Nova Skye is not just an artist — she is the voice of resistance, 
splashed in turquoise and neon against the city’s grey corruption. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’8" (173 cm) 
• Build: Lean, wiry, agile — used to climbing scaffolds and scaling rooftops. 
• Face & Hair: Angular face, quick to grin; paint often streaked across cheeks and 
fingers. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: 3rd-generation Canadian of French-Canadian descent; fair 
skin with olive undertones. 
• Eyes: Grey-green, sharp and expressive. 
• Hair: Dyed jet black with turquoise streaks, shaved undercut on one side. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Light freckles across nose, faint scars on hands and arms from 
climbing falls. 
• Distinctive Features: Tattoo sleeve of geometric northern lights–inspired designs; 
chipped tooth from a protest scuffle. 
• Clothing Style: Bold streetwear with layered textures — patched jackets, graffiti-
stained jeans, hoodies. 
• Signature Outfit: Oversized denim jacket covered in paint, ripped black jeans, neon 
high-tops, respirator mask slung around her neck. 
• Accessories: Spray-paint cans clipped to belt, sketchbook filled with mural designs, 
headphones. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Nova Skye, rebellious young woman age 27, Canadian heritage, fair 
skin with light freckles, grey-green eyes, jet black hair with turquoise 
streaks in an undercut style, tattoo sleeve inspired by northern lights, 
wearing oversized paint-splattered denim jacket, ripped black jeans, neon 
sneakers, graffiti respirator mask slung around her neck, mischievous grin, 
standing in front of a glowing graffiti mural under a viaduct at night, semi-
realistic cartoon, graphic novel style, neon noir atmosphere --ar 2:3 --v 6 -
-style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Half-smirk, eyes gleaming with defiance. 
• Secondary Moods: Focused intensity (while painting), protective (toward her 
neighborhood), fiery (when clashing with authority). 
• Persona: Recklessly bold but deeply compassionate — thrives on chaos but channels 
it into creativity and community defense. 
• Props & Accessories: Spray cans, portable speaker, paint-splattered gloves. 
• Signature Items: Her respirator mask painted with stylized maple leaf and aurora 
patterns. 
• Environmental Cues: Rooftops, viaduct walls, abandoned industrial yards splashed 
with color. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Defiant, visionary, neon-noir, vibrant, anarchic energy, 
underground hero. 
• Favourite Movie: Scott Pilgrim vs. The World — admires its stylized rebellion and DIY 
spirit. 
• Favourite Song: “Rebellion (Lies)” by Arcade Fire. 
• Favourite Colour: Turquoise — bright, electric, impossible to ignore. 
• Favourite Food: Poutine — comfort food she grew up with, eaten late at night after 
mural runs. 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 

Frankie Malone 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Francis “Frankie” Malone 
Age: 39 
Occupation: Auto shop owner (Malone’s Auto) / underground boxing promoter 
Game Archetype: The Rogue Ally — fixer, hustler, sometimes helpful, sometimes trouble 
Frankie Malone grew up in Rivermouth Industrial, the son of a longshoreman and a 
seamstress. He learned to fight young, first with fists, later in underground rings that 
earned him scars and respect. When the unions collapsed and jobs dried up, Frankie 
opened Malone’s Auto, a repair shop that doubled as a hangout for dockworkers, boxers, 
and small-time hustlers. 

Officially, he’s a mechanic. Unofficially, Frankie runs unlicensed boxing matches in 
backrooms and warehouses, taking bets and greasing palms. He’s a fixer for anyone who 
needs quiet muscle, a quick repair, or introductions in Havenbay’s underworld. 
Though shady, Frankie isn’t heartless. He runs tabs for broke workers, helps kids off the 
street by teaching them to box, and occasionally tips off Gerald Quinn (and later Ally) when 
trouble brews too close to home. His connection to the Ferryman’s networks is murky: 
sometimes he does jobs for the wrong people just to keep his shop afloat. 
For Ally, Frankie is both resource and risk — an old-school hustler whose loyalty runs 
deep, but whose deals always carry strings. 
Appearance 
• Height: 6’1" (185 cm) 
• Build: Broad-shouldered, muscled from years under cars and in boxing gyms. 
• Face & Hair: Square jaw, strong nose slightly flattened from past fights. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Irish-Italian American; olive-tan complexion. 
• Eyes: Blue-grey, mischievous, rarely serious unless cornered. 
• Hair: Dark brown, cut short and slicked back with pomade. 
• Facial Hair: Perpetual five o’clock shadow. 
• Skin Features: Scar across his left eyebrow (boxing injury); grease-stained hands. 
• Distinctive Features: Tattoo of a coiled serpent on his right forearm. 
• Clothing Style: Casual workwear mixed with street tough — leather jackets, rolled-up 
sleeves, steel-toe boots. 
• Signature Outfit: Grease-stained Henley shirt under a brown leather jacket, dark 
jeans, boots. 
• Accessories: Worn leather belt with brass buckle; gold St. Christopher medallion 
around his neck (his mother’s). 
 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Frankie Malone, rugged man age 39, Irish-Italian American 
heritage, tall broad-shouldered build, blue-grey eyes, dark brown slicked-
back hair, five o’clock shadow, scar over left eyebrow, wearing grease-
stained Henley shirt under brown leather jacket with dark jeans and boots, 
St. Christopher medallion necklace, cigarette in hand, standing in a dim auto 
garage with oil stains and boxing posters on the walls, semi-realistic 
cartoon, graphic novel style, noir working-class grit atmosphere --ar 2:3 --v 
6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Half-smile, one eyebrow raised. 
• Secondary Moods: Explosive anger (when provoked), weary resignation (when 
business is bad), surprising tenderness (with people he trusts). 
• Persona: Charming hustler, jack-of-all-trades; straddles the line between friend and 
liability. Has loyalty to old friends but often bends the rules. 
• Props & Accessories: Wrench, boxing gloves, ever-present cigarette. 
• Signature Items: St. Christopher medallion; boxing posters in his shop. 
• Environmental Cues: Oil-stained garage floors, smell of gasoline and tobacco; 
underground gyms with bare bulbs. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Rogue, fixer, hustler, loyal but unpredictable, working-class grit. 
• Favourite Movie: Raging Bull — brutal but honest. 
• Favourite Song: “Gimme Shelter” by The Rolling Stones. 
• Favourite Colour: Burnt orange. 
• Favourite Food: Meatball sub, messy and filling. 
 
Silas Vex 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Silas Vex (real surname unknown; “Vex” is his chosen alias) 
Age: 48 
Occupation: Information broker, black-market fixer, “man who knows things” 
Game Archetype: The Shadow Dealer — morally grey contact, invaluable but 
untrustworthy 
Silas Vex’s past is an open question — whispered to be the son of a dockside smuggler, 
others claim he was once a minor government clerk who vanished with files that could 
bury careers. Whatever the truth, he resurfaced in Havenbay’s underworld two decades 
ago, reinvented as a broker of information. 

Unlike Dante Voss, who rules through force, Vex wields knowledge. He runs a network of 
street informants, hacked records, and old-school gossip lines, selling to whoever can pay 
— cops, criminals, or councillors. His specialty is plausible deniability: he never dirties his 
own hands, and his name never appears in official reports. 
For Ally, Silas is a double-edged sword. He can hand her the missing piece of a case — for a 
price — but he may just as easily sell her name to the highest bidder. Gerald Quinn once 
called him “the devil you shake hands with when you’re drowning.” 
Some whisper Vex has ties to the Ferryman, though whether he’s a pawn, a partner, or just 
clever enough to survive near the fire is unknown. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’10" (178 cm) 
• Build: Thin, wiry; a predator’s leanness rather than strength. 
• Face & Hair: Gaunt face, sharp cheekbones, faint perpetual smirk. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Eastern European descent; sallow, pale complexion. 
• Eyes: Piercing blue, calculating, unnerving eye contact. 
• Hair: Salt-and-pepper black, slicked back but thinning at the crown. 
• Facial Hair: Short goatee, always immaculately trimmed. 
• Skin Features: Hollowed cheeks; faint burn scars across his left hand. 
• Distinctive Features: Snake tattoo curling up his neck (visible when his collar shifts); 
gold tooth glints when he grins. 
• Clothing Style: Sharp but threadbare — vintage suits repurposed for menace. 
• Signature Outfit: Charcoal suit with a wine-red shirt, black trench coat, worn leather 
gloves. 
• Accessories: Silver-tipped cane (not needed for walking, purely for effect), pocket 
watch with cracked glass, endless cigarette case. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Silas Vex, gaunt man age 48, Eastern European descent, pale 
sallow skin, piercing blue eyes, salt-and-pepper slicked back hair, trimmed 
goatee, wearing charcoal suit with wine-red shirt and black trench coat, 
snake tattoo curling up neck, silver-tipped cane, faint gold tooth glint when 
he smirks, dim smoke-filled backroom with neon light flickering, noir 
cinematic atmosphere, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel style --ar 2:3 --
v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Knowing half-smile, as if he’s always holding back the punchline. 
• Secondary Moods: Cold fury (when crossed), indulgent amusement (at others’ 
naiveté), aloof weariness (when pressed too far). 
• Persona: Smooth, cunning, thrives on leverage; rarely lies outright but tells truths 
warped by omission. 
• Props & Accessories: Cane, cigarette, tattered notebook of contacts. 
• Signature Items: Pocket watch (rumored to once belong to a dead politician); coded 
ledger of debts and favors. 
• Environmental Cues: Seedy backrooms thick with smoke, bars with burned-out neon, 
cluttered offices where files spill across the floor. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Manipulative, sly, survivor, information-is-currency, noir serpent, 
dangerous charm. 
• Favourite Movie: The Usual Suspects — admires its twists and manipulations. 
• Favourite Song: “Paint It Black” by The Rolling Stones. 
• Favourite Colour: Deep crimson. 
• Favourite Food: Pickled herring with rye bread — simple, sharp, old-country taste. 
Councillor Evelyn Hart 
 
Image from Projects 

Profile 
Full Name: Evelyn Margaret Hart 
Age: 44 
Occupation: City Councillor, power-broker behind Havenbay’s “redevelopment” projects 
Game Archetype: The Masked Manipulator — charming reformer in public, corrupt 
facilitator in private 
Evelyn Hart grew up in Highcliff Heights, daughter of an old-money shipping family whose 
fortune waned after Havenbay’s industrial bust. Rather than accept decline, she reinvented 
herself as a polished public servant, rising through the city council on a platform of 
“renewal.” 
Her speeches emphasize progress, community revitalization, and economic growth, but 
behind closed doors she is the broker of redevelopment graft: cutting deals with 
developers, leveraging Dante Voss’s security firm to “pacify” districts, and laundering 
influence through civic projects. Evelyn sees politics as theater — one where she writes the 
script, controls the actors, and leaves the audience applauding. 
She was a patron of journalist Thomas Quinn’s early career, funding his exposés… until his 
investigations crept too close to her hidden interests. His death was not her direct order, 
but she looked the other way as “the Ferryman” handled it. The guilt doesn’t haunt her; to 
Evelyn, sacrifice is collateral on the path to power. 
For Ally Quinn, Evelyn is both a formidable antagonist and the shining face of corruption — 
a reminder that evil in Havenbay doesn’t always lurk in shadows, but stands proudly under 
camera flashes. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’7" (170 cm) 
• Build: Slim but commanding presence; posture radiates confidence. 
• Face & Hair: Oval face with refined features, perfectly symmetrical smile; always 
professionally made-up. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Anglo-European heritage; porcelain skin with faint signs of 
cosmetic upkeep. 
• Eyes: Icy blue, unwavering — smiles with her lips, not her eyes. 
• Hair: Honey-blonde, sleek shoulder-length bob, always immaculate. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Subtle crow’s feet, faintest surgical touch-ups (botoxed forehead, 
smooth jawline). 
• Distinctive Features: Red-lacquered nails, diamond stud earrings, perfectly arched 
brows. 
• Clothing Style: Executive powerwear — tailored designer suits, silk blouses, pencil 
skirts. 
• Signature Outfit: Ivory blazer with gold buttons, navy pencil skirt, pearl necklace. 
• Accessories: Montblanc fountain pen, leather-bound planner, phone always in hand; 
minimalist gold wristwatch. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Councillor Evelyn Hart, elegant woman age 44, slim build, 
porcelain skin, icy blue eyes, sleek honey-blonde bob haircut, wearing ivory 
blazer with gold buttons, navy pencil skirt, pearl necklace, polished and 
poised expression, standing at a press podium with city hall backdrop and 
flashing cameras, noir cinematic lighting, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic 
novel illustration, manipulative politician aura --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Polished, pleasant smile with underlying calculation. 
• Secondary Moods: Cold fury (when opposed), persuasive warmth (in front of 
cameras), dismissive smirk (toward subordinates). 
• Persona: Publicly: reformer, visionary, voice of progress. Privately: ruthless deal-
maker, masks self-interest as civic good. 
• Props & Accessories: Crystal wine glass in private scenes; press podium with “Hart 
for Havenbay” banner in public. 
• Signature Items: Pearl necklace inherited from her grandmother; leather planner full 
of coded notes. 
• Environmental Cues: Spotlight-lit press conferences, chauffeured cars waiting 
curbside, offices with panoramic bay views. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Ambitious, polished, manipulative, “progressive” veneer, smiling 
dagger. 
• Favourite Movie: The Ides of March — admires its portrait of power games. 
• Favourite Song: “Everybody Wants to Rule the World” by Tears for Fears. 
• Favourite Colour: Pearl white (purity as performance). 
• Favourite Food: Seared scallops with champagne reduction — refined, elitist taste. 
Dr. Lionel Cortez 
 

Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Dr. Lionel Mateo Cortez 
Age: 52 
Occupation: Chief Medical Examiner, Havenbay City Morgue 
Game Archetype: The World-Weary Sage — carries the burden of truth, offering insight 
laced with hard-earned cynicism 
Lionel Cortez was born in Miami to Cuban immigrant parents, raised in a household that 
valued hard work and family above all. After medical school, he took a position in 
Havenbay, drawn by the city’s promise of opportunity — but quickly found himself mired 
in the city’s darker realities. 
Over three decades, he has examined thousands of bodies, each telling a story the living 
tried to bury. He became Havenbay’s Chief Medical Examiner not by ambition but by 
endurance, surviving politics, budget cuts, and corruption scandals. 
Widowed in his forties, Lionel throws himself into his work and his makeshift “family” of 
colleagues. He formed a close bond with Gerald Quinn years ago, often trading insights on 
cases that official reports tried to silence. He now sees Ally as an echo of both Gerald and 
Thomas — fiery, relentless — and quietly helps her, though he warns her not to make the 
same mistakes. 
Unlike Dr. Priya Shah, who clings to objectivity and procedure, Lionel embraces empathy — 
reminding others that beneath the evidence are human lives, deserving dignity. His morgue 
is both archive and sanctuary: the last voice for those silenced by Havenbay’s corruption. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’11" (180 cm) 
• Build: Broad-shouldered but softened with age; strong presence without intimidation. 
• Face & Hair: Rounded, weathered face with tired eyes but a kind smile; deep forehead 
lines. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Cuban-American; medium tan complexion. 
• Eyes: Dark brown, reflective and compassionate. 
• Hair: Salt-and-pepper, swept back, slightly unruly. 
• Facial Hair: Full but neatly trimmed salt-and-pepper beard. 
• Skin Features: Crow’s feet, deep laugh lines, faint scar along jawline (motorcycle 
accident in youth). 
• Distinctive Features: Warm but world-weary gaze; faint smell of tobacco and coffee 
follows him. 
• Clothing Style: Practical, rumpled-professional — shirtsleeves rolled up, ties 
loosened, lab coat often worn but rarely buttoned. 
• Signature Outfit: White lab coat over a button-down shirt with sleeves rolled, tie 
loosened, dark trousers. 
• Accessories: Reading glasses on a chain, worn wristwatch, flask of strong Cuban 
coffee always close by. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Dr. Lionel Cortez, Cuban-American medical examiner age 52, medium 
tan complexion, salt-and-pepper swept-back hair, neatly trimmed beard, warm 
but weary dark brown eyes, wearing a white lab coat over a rumpled button-
down shirt with rolled sleeves and loosened tie, reading glasses on a chain, 
holding a mug of coffee, standing in a dimly lit morgue with cold drawers and 
paperwork stacks, noir cinematic lighting, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic 
novel style, empathetic yet world-weary vibe --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Tired half-smile, as if amused by the absurdity of life. 
• Secondary Moods: Somber empathy (with victims/families), biting sarcasm (when 
facing bureaucracy), quiet intensity (when uncovering truth). 
• Persona: Compassionate, grounded, dark-humored; balances scientific rigor with 
human sensitivity. Known for “talking” to his cases as he works. 
• Props & Accessories: Clipboard, scalpel, autopsy files, coffee mug stained from years 
of use. 
• Signature Items: His old wristwatch (a gift from his late wife); flask of Cuban coffee. 
• Environmental Cues: Dimly lit morgue, humming refrigeration units, faint jazz music 
from a portable speaker. 
• Vibe & Keywords: World-weary, empathetic, sharp-witted, noir mentor, cynic with a 
heart. 
• Favourite Movie: The Maltese Falcon — appreciates its blend of grit and moral 
ambiguity. 
• Favourite Song: “Autumn Leaves” (jazz standard, Nat King Cole version). 
• Favourite Colour: Olive green. 
• Favourite Food: Cuban ropa vieja with black beans and rice — comfort food he makes 
on Sundays. 
Sabine Rourke 
 
Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Sabine Elise Rourke 
Age: 41 
Occupation: Investigative attorney / fixer-for-hire — oscillates between defending 
whistleblowers and quietly brokering deals for the powerful 
Game Archetype: The Ambiguous Ally — equal parts confidante and potential betrayer, 
her loyalty is always in question 
Sabine Rourke grew up in Highcliff Heights, daughter of a family that carried both 
respectability and debt. Her intelligence and drive took her to law school, where she 
graduated near the top of her class. Early in her career she made waves defending 

whistleblowers against city corruption, but over time she was drawn into Havenbay’s 
labyrinth of power. 
Now, Sabine operates in liminal spaces — sometimes fighting for the vulnerable, 
sometimes cutting deals that protect the very institutions she once opposed. For Councillor 
Evelyn Hart, she drafts airtight contracts; for Dante Voss, she ensures his “security” 
operations are legally bulletproof. Yet she has also quietly slipped files to Arthur Finch, and 
on one occasion covered Gerald Quinn’s back when he was boxed in by politics. 
Her relationship with Ally is deliberately murky: Sabine recognizes Thomas Quinn’s fire in 
Ally but warns her that righteous crusades often end in shallow graves. Whether she helps 
Ally uncover truths or buries her in red tape depends entirely on the shifting tides of her 
own agenda. 
Sabine thrives on ambiguity, and in a city like Havenbay, that makes her one of the most 
dangerous people alive. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’9" (175 cm) 
• Build: Tall, slender but athletic; has the presence to command a courtroom or 
intimidate in a backroom. 
• Face & Hair: Strong cheekbones, sharp chin, lips often pressed in thought. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Irish-French American; porcelain skin with faint olive 
undertone. 
• Eyes: Steel-grey, unwavering, slightly hooded — difficult to read. 
• Hair: Black, cut in a sleek chin-length bob; always immaculate. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Small scar just under her lower lip, rarely mentioned. 
• Distinctive Features: An intensity in her stare that makes people nervous; always 
perfectly composed posture. 
• Clothing Style: Monochrome elegance — clean lines, tailored suits, long coats. 
• Signature Outfit: Black tailored blazer, crisp white blouse, slim trousers, heeled boots. 
• Accessories: Leather briefcase, silver fountain pen, minimalist earrings, always 
wearing a dark trench coat in the rain. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Sabine Rourke, enigmatic woman age 41, Irish-French American 
heritage, porcelain skin with faint olive undertone, steel-grey eyes, sleek 
black chin-length bob haircut, wearing black tailored blazer and white blouse 
under a dark trench coat, poised and controlled expression, silver fountain 
pen in hand, standing on a rain-soaked courthouse step under a flickering 
streetlamp, noir cinematic atmosphere, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel 
style --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Controlled calm, with an edge of challenge. 
• Secondary Moods: Coldly amused (when she has the upper hand), scathing (when 
crossed), weary melancholy (when alone). 
• Persona: Polished, articulate, intimidatingly intelligent — keeps her true motives 
obscured. Loyal only to her own code. 
• Props & Accessories: Briefcase stuffed with case files, cigarette case (rarely smoked, 
more ritualistic), whisky glass at night. 
• Signature Items: Silver fountain pen she uses to sign contracts and clandestine notes; 
engraved with initials “S.E.R.” 
• Environmental Cues: Dimly lit offices, courthouse hallways echoing with footsteps, 
rainy street corners under flickering lamps. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Calculating, enigmatic, poised, noir femme fatale, ally or enemy 
depending on the deal. 
• Favourite Movie: Chinatown — admires its cynical view of power and corruption. 
• Favourite Song: “Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)” by Eurythmics. 
• Favourite Colour: Deep crimson. 
• Favourite Food: Oysters on the half shell — sharp, indulgent, cold. 
The Ferryman 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
Profile 
Full Name: Unknown (aliases only; “The Ferryman” is whispered moniker) 
Age: Estimated mid-50s 
Occupation: Shadow broker and orchestrator of disappearances — the unseen hand 
behind Havenbay’s deepest corruption 
Game Archetype: The Phantom Antagonist — myth made flesh, the ultimate hidden villain 
No official record exists of the Ferryman’s identity — at least, none intact. Whispers trace 
him back to the docks of Havenbay in the 1980s, an enforcer for smuggling rings who 
survived when his rivals vanished one by one. Over decades, he transitioned from muscle 
to mastermind, building an empire in shadows. 

The Ferryman earned his name for making people “cross over” — not just disappear 
physically, but erased from records, bank accounts, memory. Those who defied him were 
found dead with silver ferry tokens placed nearby, a grim signature that became city 
folklore. 
Politicians like Councillor Evelyn Hart and corporate predators like Dante Voss rely on him 
to handle “unsolvable problems,” yet fear him as much as they use him. His influence is 
whispered through intermediaries, his orders carried on slips of paper or encrypted files 
that vanish after being read. 
Thomas Quinn, Ally’s father, died chasing a story that pointed too directly at the 
Ferryman’s network — his accident orchestrated as a warning. Ally’s investigation 
threatens to unmask him not just as a myth, but as the rot at Havenbay’s core. 
To the city, the Ferryman is both a legend and a ghost story. To Ally, he is the truth waiting 
at the end of every thread — the ultimate confrontation between light and shadow. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of The Ferryman, mysterious shadowy man age ~55, tall lean build, 
pale weathered skin, cold grey eyes, dark hair streaked with silver under a 
hood, black trench coat and leather gloves, faint scarred hand flipping a 
silver ferry token, standing in foggy rain-soaked dockside alley, noir 
cinematic lighting, semi-realistic cartoon style, graphic novel illustration, 
ominous mythic villain aura --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Appearance 
• Height: 6’1" (185 cm) 
• Build: Lean, wiry; moves with unsettling quiet grace. 
• Face & Hair: Rarely seen clearly; angular features under shadows, sharp cheekbones. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Ambiguous — pale skin but weathered by sea and smoke. 
• Eyes: Cold steel-grey, rumored mismatched (one lighter than the other). 
• Hair: Dark, streaked with silver, shoulder-length but often hidden under a hood. 
• Facial Hair: Occasional stubble, never full beard. 
• Skin Features: Deep lines etched from years of stress; faint burn marks on one hand. 
• Distinctive Features: When seen, always accompanied by a silver coin — flipping it, 
holding it, or leaving it at scenes. 
• Clothing Style: Long dark coats, utilitarian boots; blends into alleys and fog. 
• Signature Outfit: Black trench coat, hood low over face, leather gloves; faint metallic 
glint of coin always in hand. 
• Accessories: Silver ferry token, rumored to be from Havenbay’s defunct 1920s ferry 
line. 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Blank, unreadable mask — no wasted movement. 
• Secondary Moods: 
– Cold calculation (when in control). 
– Soft menace (when persuading). 
– Sudden violence (when betrayed). 
• Persona: An urban myth come to life. Operates like a ghost — never confirmed, only 
whispered. Uses fear and uncertainty as weapons as much as bullets. 
• Props & Accessories: Silver coin, old matchbook, antique ferry tickets. 
• Signature Items: Ferry token with scratched edges, always left at jobs as a calling 
card. 
• Environmental Cues: Appears in fog, rain, or shadows near the docks; never seen in 
daylight. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Myth, menace, ghostly presence, orchestrator, noir boogeyman, 
inevitability, corruption’s ferryman. 
• Favourite Movie: The Third Man — admires its portrayal of unseen influence. 
• Favourite Song: “Riders on the Storm” by The Doors. 
• Favourite Colour: Ash grey. 
• Favourite Food: None publicly known; rumored to drink only black coffee and 
whiskey. 
Dante Voss 
 

Arthur Finch 
Profile 
Full Name: Dante Aurelius Voss 
Age: 51 
Occupation: CEO of the Voss Group — a private security and “risk management” firm 
(essentially mercenary contractors and corporate enforcers) 
Game Archetype: The Corporate Antagonist — polished villain, sells safety while sowing 
fear 
Dante Voss began as a decorated special forces officer, serving in shadow wars overseas 
before “retiring” to form the Voss Group, a private security firm headquartered in Highcliff 
Heights. On paper, the company provides elite protection for corporations, politicians, and 
the city’s elite. In practice, it is a mercenary operation that controls neighborhoods through 
intimidation, strikes deals with Councillor Hart, and suppresses dissent under the guise of 
“safety.” 
Dante thrives on power vacuum economics: when public trust in the police falters, he steps 
in with expensive “solutions.” His men are ex-military, loyal to his paychecks, and his reach 
extends from boardrooms to back alleys. He has cultivated an image as a philanthropist — 
funding scholarships, donating to civic projects — but behind the façade, he launders 
money, silences critics, and sells information to both sides. 
He has crossed paths with Gerald Quinn before, respecting him as an adversary but 
ultimately outlasting him as the city slipped further into corporate shadow. Ally Quinn 
represents something he despises: uncontrolled truth. To Dante, information is a weapon, 
and her podcast threatens to destabilize the carefully balanced fear he profits from. 
Though not the ultimate puppet master (the Ferryman operates in deeper shadows), Dante 
Voss is the face of Havenbay’s new corruption — a man who believes order can only exist 
when he controls the levers. 
Appearance 
• Height: 6’3" (190 cm) 
• Build: Broad-shouldered, imposing — military-trained physique kept honed even in 
middle age. 
• Face & Hair: Chiselled jawline, aquiline nose, a face that commands boardrooms and 
intimidates back alleys alike. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: German-American, pale skin with faint sun-weathering. 
• Eyes: Ice-grey, piercing, almost metallic in hue. 
• Hair: Silver-grey, immaculately slicked back; widow’s peak sharpens his severe look. 
• Facial Hair: Clean-shaven, reinforcing military precision. 
• Skin Features: Subtle crow’s feet, a faint scar along the jawline from combat days. 
• Distinctive Features: Always impeccably groomed; radiates dominance through 
posture and gaze. 
• Clothing Style: Bespoke business suits, militaristic undertone — power dressing 
meets battlefield readiness. 
• Signature Outfit: Charcoal three-piece suit with subtle pinstripes, black silk tie, 
polished Oxfords; concealed shoulder holster beneath jacket. 
• Accessories: Platinum wristwatch, signet ring with Voss Group crest, encrypted 
earpiece often visible. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Dante Voss, tall imposing man age 51, broad-shouldered, ice-grey 
eyes, slicked-back silver-grey hair, clean-shaven, sharp jawline, wearing 
bespoke charcoal three-piece suit with subtle pinstripes, black silk tie, 
platinum wristwatch, faint scar on jawline, standing in a glass-walled high-
rise office at night with neon city lights outside, noir cinematic lighting, 
semi-realistic cartoon style, graphic novel illustration, menacing corporate 
villain aura --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
tyle Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Controlled calm with a faint smirk, as if he knows more than you. 
• Secondary Moods: Cold fury (when challenged), charismatic persuasion (when 
recruiting), sardonic amusement (when toying with opponents). 
• Persona: A predator in a suit — disciplined, strategic, ruthless. Prefers to 
outmaneuver enemies with influence, but isn’t above direct violence. 
• Props & Accessories: Whiskey tumbler (neat, no ice), leather briefcase with hidden 
compartments, custom handgun. 
• Signature Items: Platinum wristwatch (a war trophy from his time in special forces), 
Voss Group lapel pin. 
• Environmental Cues: Offices in glass towers with surveillance screens lining the 
walls; his presence shifts rooms into silence. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Ruthless, corporate warlord, predator, cold charisma, private 
army, control through fear. 
• Favourite Movie: Heat (1995) — admires its disciplined criminals and code of 
professionalism. 
• Favourite Song: “Sympathy for the Devil” by The Rolling Stones. 
• Favourite Colour: Gunmetal grey. 
• Favourite Food: Dry-aged ribeye steak, cooked rare. 
Dr. Priya Shah 
Profile 
Full Name: Dr. Priya Anjali Shah 
Age: 38 
Occupation: Forensic Scientist at Havenbay University’s Crime Lab (consultant for HCPD) 
Game Archetype: The Scientist Ally — pragmatic truth-seeker who translates evidence 
into undeniable fact 
Priya Shah grew up the daughter of doctors, but while her siblings followed medicine, she 
pursued forensic science, fascinated by the idea that even the smallest trace could tell the 
truth. After earning her PhD, she joined Havenbay University’s forensic program and 
became a consultant for the HCPD. 
Priya quickly earned a reputation as uncompromising — she won’t massage results to fit a 
narrative, no matter the pressure from city hall or precinct brass. This integrity has made 
her a quiet target of frustration among politicians like Evelyn Hart and corporate clients of 
Dante Voss, but indispensable to detectives like Captain Dana Drake. 
She forms a bond with Ally Quinn, who reminds her of Thomas’s relentless pursuit of truth 
— though Priya warns Ally that evidence can illuminate, but it can also endanger. Priya 
believes in facts above politics, but even she knows that in Havenbay, science doesn’t 
always speak loud enough against money and power. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’5" (165 cm) 
• Build: Slender, practical strength from long hours in labs, not gyms. 
• Face & Hair: Heart-shaped face, warm but analytical expression, often framed by a 
stray lock of hair falling loose from a bun. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Indian-American heritage; medium brown complexion with 
warm undertones. 
• Eyes: Deep brown, sharp and alert, with a touch of tiredness from late nights. 
• Hair: Black, worn usually in a messy bun or ponytail; strands often escaping while she 
works. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Faint circles under eyes from overwork; smooth otherwise. 
• Distinctive Features: Small stud nose piercing; faint ink stain often on her fingers 
from jotting notes. 
• Clothing Style: Professional but practical — lab coats, blouses, trousers, comfortable 
shoes. 
• Signature Outfit: White lab coat over teal blouse and black slacks; sensible sneakers. 
• Accessories: Safety goggles around her neck, latex gloves stuffed into pockets, tablet 
with forensic reports. 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Calm concentration, eyes narrowing slightly in analysis. 
• Secondary Moods: Irritated (when rushed or doubted), wry amusement (at gallows 
humor), gentle encouragement (with Ally). 
• Persona: Rational, meticulous, occasionally sarcastic; believes in science as the 
ultimate weapon against corruption and chaos. 
• Props & Accessories: Microscope slides, fingerprint kits, UV flashlight. 
• Signature Items: A slim silver bracelet from her grandmother; her battered lab 
notebook filled with observations. 
• Environmental Cues: Sterile labs, stacks of evidence bags, the faint hum of 
refrigeration units. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Precision, truth, scientific clarity, quiet resilience, trust-in-
evidence. 
• Favourite Movie: Zodiac — admires its focus on procedure and detail. 
• Favourite Song: “Scientist” by Coldplay (an inside joke she only half-admits). 
• Favourite Colour: Teal. 
• Favourite Food: Masala chai with samosas — comfort food she often sneaks into the 
lab. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Silas Vex, gaunt man age 48, Eastern European descent, pale 
sallow skin, piercing blue eyes, salt-and-pepper slicked back hair, trimmed 
goatee, wearing charcoal suit with wine-red shirt and black trench coat, 
snake tattoo curling up neck, silver-tipped cane, faint gold tooth glint when 
he smirks, dim smoke-filled backroom with neon light flickering, noir 
cinematic atmosphere, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel style --ar 2:3 --
v 6 --style raw 
 

Image from Projects 
Captain Dana Drake 
 
Captain Dana Drake 
Profile 
Full Name: Captain Dana Elise Drake 
Age: 46 
Occupation: Captain of Havenbay City Police Department (HCPD) 
Game Archetype: The Gatekeeper (strict but principled authority figure, ally/antagonist 
tension) 
Dana Drake grew up in Havenbay’s Rivermouth district, the daughter of a longshoreman 
and a schoolteacher. Her family’s resilience through strikes and city corruption instilled in 

her an early intolerance for injustice. After excelling in the academy, she rose quickly 
through HCPD ranks, known for her investigative brilliance and her refusal to take bribes 
— which earned her enemies on both sides of the law. 
Her scar came from a bust in the Harbor Ward gone wrong, where she pulled two rookies 
out under fire — cementing her reputation as a captain who bleeds with her people. Now, 
as head of Havenbay’s most pressured precinct, she balances truth-seeking with the 
political realities forced down by Councillor Hart and the Police Union. She is wary of Ally 
Quinn at first — seeing her as a reckless outsider — but over time develops reluctant 
respect, recognizing Ally’s echo of Gerald Quinn’s old-school detective values. 
Captain Drake is haunted by the knowledge that her department is compromised by graft 
she cannot root out alone. Every day is a fight to hold the line in a city eroded by 
corruption. 
Appearance 
Character Appearance 
• Height: 5’10" (178 cm) 
• Build: Athletic, sturdy frame from years of field work; carries herself with squared 
shoulders. 
• Face & Hair: Angular cheekbones, stern jawline softened by faint laugh lines; often 
keeps her hair pulled back in a precise bun. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: African-American with warm brown skin, faint freckles. 
• Eyes: Hazel-green, sharp, scanning constantly. 
• Hair: Dark brown, streaked with silver at the temples — a mark of authority she 
doesn’t hide. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Small scar along her left cheekbone from a knife fight in her detective 
years. 
• Distinctive Features: Piercing gaze and a voice that cuts through any room. 
• Clothing Style: Professional, utilitarian — always in uniform or dark tailored 
slacks/blazer combo. 
• Signature Outfit: Dark navy HCPD captain’s uniform with brass buttons polished to a 
shine, black leather belt with holster, heavy police boots. 
• Accessories: Police badge worn clipped to belt rather than lapel; old wristwatch gifted 
by her late mentor. 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Composed and stern, brows slightly furrowed. 
• Secondary Moods: Exasperated (when politics interfere), warm pride (for her 
detectives), quiet grief (for the city’s corruption). 
• Persona: Straight-shooter, disciplined, fair but uncompromising — embodies law 
under siege in Havenbay. 
• Props & Accessories: Coffee mug permanently in hand, often scrawled case files 
under arm. 
• Signature Items: Brass whistle from academy days; her service pistol (kept 
immaculate but rarely drawn). 
• Environmental Cues: Office smells faintly of burnt coffee and rain-soaked leather; 
blinds always half-closed. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Authority, integrity, discipline, weary optimism, grit under 
pressure. 
• Favourite Movie: Serpico — admires its truth-to-power grit. 
• Favourite Song: “A Change Is Gonna Come” by Sam Cooke — reflects her belief that 
justice bends, slowly, toward good. 
• Favourite Colour: Deep navy blue. 
• Favourite Food: Clam chowder with black pepper — simple, hearty, no frills. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Captain Dana Drake, African-American woman police captain, age 
46, athletic build, wise hazel-green eyes, dark brown hair streaked with 
silver pulled into a bun, faint cheek scar, wearing dark navy police captain 
uniform with brass buttons and badge on belt, standing in a rain-slicked 
precinct office with half-closed blinds, noir lighting, semi-realistic 
cartoon style, graphic novel illustration, moody cinematic shadows, 
expressive and serious face, true crime detective aesthetic --ar 2:3 --v 6 --
style raw 
Officer Benjamin “Benji” Park 
 
Ally Quinn 

Profile 
Full Name: Officer Benjamin Park 
Nickname: “Benji” 
Age: 27 
Occupation: Beat Cop, Havenbay Police Department — Harbor Ward Precinct. 
Game Archetype: The Rookie / Idealist 
• A younger officer who represents hope for change in a corrupt system. 
• Acts as a foil to Del Cruz: where Del is hardened and pragmatic, Benji is optimistic 
and still believes in the badge as a symbol of justice. 
• Archetypally, he is the Bright Spark — the one who brings energy, humor, and moral 
clarity to balance Havenbay’s gloom. 
📜 Backstory 
Benjamin “Benji” Park grew up in Havenbay’s Civic Row, the son of hardworking 
immigrant parents who ran a small laundry. His father passed when he was a teenager, 
leaving his mother to raise him and his two younger sisters. Benji stepped into a caretaker 
role early, always working part-time jobs while keeping his grades up. 
From a young age, he idolized police officers, seeing them as protectors of the weak. He 
entered the academy straight out of college, driven by an earnest desire to clean up the city. 
His optimism earned him the nickname “Benji”, a moniker he embraced — it made him 
seem approachable to locals on his beat. 
But reality has begun to test him. He’s seen fellow officers take bribes, evidence disappear, 
and suspects walk free because of connections. His idealism is colliding with corruption, 
and Del Cruz has taken him under her wing to help him navigate the gray areas. Ally 
Quinn’s relentless pursuit of the truth both inspires him and shakes his confidence — 
forcing him to ask: is justice possible within the system, or outside it? 
 
         In short: Benji Park is the Rookie’s Hope — a symbol of sincerity and potential in a 
city that tries to grind people down. He represents what Havenbay could be if truth and 
justice win out. 
Appearance 
🧍 Character Appearance 
Height: 5’11” (180 cm) 
Build: Athletic but lean; has the look of someone who trains but isn’t hardened yet. 
     Face & Hair 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Korean-American; smooth light-tan complexion with youthful 
vibrancy. 
• Eyes: Dark brown, almond-shaped, lively and expressive, often betraying his emotions. 
• Hair: Black, slightly longer on top, neatly parted but often mussed by his cap. 
• Facial Hair: None — clean-shaven, boyish. 
• Skin Features: Clear skin, faint scar on chin from a high school basketball accident. 
• Distinctive Features: 
– Disarming smile that makes him approachable. 
– Quick, animated expressions. 
– Wears his uniform with pride, even if it sometimes looks “too crisp” compared 
to veterans. 
 
👔 Clothing Style 
• Signature Outfit: Standard Havenbay PD beat cop uniform, clean and pressed, with 
radio and bodycam. 
• Shirt & Tie: When off duty, favors casual button-ups or hoodies in muted tones, 
always paired with sneakers. 
• Accessories: 
– Standard issue police belt and gear. 
– Carries a worn leather notebook he started in the academy, filled with 
observations. 
– A thin silver bracelet, a gift from his mother when he graduated academy. 
• Style Notes: Still projects the look of a “new recruit.” Sharp, neat, slightly earnest — a 
contrast to Del’s practical scuffs and Arthur’s eccentric dignity. 
🎭 Characteristics, Expression & Persona 
Default Expression: Wide-eyed alertness, faint smile; looks like he’s eager to prove 
himself. 
Secondary Moods: 
• Nervous determination when facing danger. 
• Frustrated anger when confronted with corruption. 
• Playful humor when easing tension with colleagues or Ally. 
Persona: 
• The Idealist: Believes in what the badge should stand for. 
• Wants to make a difference in Havenbay but is still learning how messy justice can be. 
• Can be impulsive, sometimes too trusting — but his sincerity makes him a valuable 
ally. 
 
    Props & Accessories 
• Standard issue Glock, but rarely drawn — he’s more comfortable with his notebook 
and pen. 
• His silver bracelet, worn daily, often fiddled with when thinking. 
• Keeps a pocket-sized guide to police codes, dog-eared but still in use. 
      Signature Items 
• His academy notebook, filled with scribbles, doodles, and lessons — a personal 
record of his growth. 
• The bracelet from his mother, symbolizing his roots and values. 
 
                Environmental Cues 
• Usually found walking beat patrols in Harbor Ward, chatting with shopkeepers and 
kids. 
• Frequent at the precinct breakroom, with too much coffee and energy. 
• Sometimes seen at basketball courts, blowing off steam with locals. 
 
    Vibe & Keywords 
• Rookie, Idealist, Loyal Friend, Bright Spark, Justice vs. Cynicism, Naïve Courage. 
• Atmosphere: contrasts Havenbay’s darkness with sincerity and warmth. 
 
            Personal Details 
• Favourite Movie: Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse — resonates with its themes of 
responsibility and youthful determination. 
• Favourite Song: “Heroes” by David Bowie — aspirational, something he hums when 
he doubts himself. 
• Favourite Colour: Sky blue — hopeful and bright. 
• Favourite Food: Kimchi fried rice with a fried egg on top — comfort food he cooks 
himself on long shifts. 
Helen Quinn 
 
Image from Projects 

Profile 
Full Name: Helen Margaret Quinn 
Age: 46 
Occupation: Principal of Havenbay Public High School 
Game Archetype: The Moral Anchor — Ally’s parent and ethical lodestar, representing 
decency within a compromised city 
Helen Quinn grew up in a middle-class Havenbay family with English/French ancestry 
stretching back three generations. Her father was a postal worker, her mother a librarian; 
they instilled discipline, empathy, and civic duty. She excelled in education and became a 
teacher, eventually rising to principal — known citywide for fighting for resources in an 
underfunded public school system. 
She married investigative journalist Thomas Quinn young, a union built on shared belief in 
truth and service. When Thomas died in his “accident,” Helen’s grief hardened into a quiet 
resilience: she had to raise Ally alone, while fending off political interference in her school. 
Her faith in institutions has been tested, but she still clings to the belief that Havenbay’s 
future depends on its young people. 
To Ally, Helen is both support and warning: a reminder of what integrity costs, and what 
strength it takes to hold onto it. While Helen fears Ally’s crusade will mirror Thomas’s fatal 
obsession, she respects her daughter’s drive and quietly aids her whenever she can. 
Appearance 
• Height: 5’6" (168 cm) 
• Build: Slim, upright frame; professional bearing rather than athleticism. 
• Face & Hair: Refined oval face with sharp but gentle features; years of stress etched in 
fine lines. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: 3rd-generation American of English/French descent; fair skin 
with light freckles. 
• Eyes: Hazel, soft yet piercing when she’s in “principal mode.” 
• Hair: Light brown with early silver streaks, worn in a neat shoulder-length cut, often 
tucked behind her ears. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Subtle crow’s feet, a faint scar above her right eyebrow (car accident 
as a teen). 
• Distinctive Features: Clear, authoritative voice; her gaze can silence a room. 
• Clothing Style: Professional but practical — skirts, blouses, blazers; muted tones with 
occasional jewel-tone accent. 
• Signature Outfit: Navy blazer, cream blouse, grey skirt, flats. 
• Accessories: Reading glasses, silver wedding band she still wears, leather tote with 
work files. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Helen Quinn, middle-aged woman age 46, 3rd-generation American of 
English/French descent, fair skin with light freckles, hazel eyes, light 
brown hair streaked with silver in a neat shoulder-length cut, wearing navy 
blazer over cream blouse and grey skirt, warm but firm expression, subtle 
crow’s feet, standing in a school office with bookshelves and student art on 
the wall, semi-realistic cartoon, graphic novel illustration, noir-inspired 
but softened by warm lighting --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Warm but firm — the look of someone used to being listened to. 
• Secondary Moods: Stern (at injustice), exhausted (in private moments), affectionate 
(with Ally). 
• Persona: Driven, compassionate, pragmatic — she believes rules matter, but people 
matter more. 
• Props & Accessories: Coffee mug that reads “Because I Said So – Principal”, stack of 
student essays, fountain pen from Thomas Quinn. 
• Signature Items: Her leather tote bag, old house keys with a brass fob shaped like an 
apple. 
• Environmental Cues: School corridors with student art, books stacked on her office 
shelves, faint chalk dust smell. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Principled, resilient, educator, protector, pragmatic optimist. 
• Favourite Movie: Norma Rae — admires the fight for fairness against entrenched 
power. 
• Favourite Song: “Both Sides Now” by Joni Mitchell — bittersweet reflection. 
• Favourite Colour: Deep navy blue. 
• Favourite Food: Chicken pot pie — comfort food, simple but nourishing. 
 
Sgt. Delaney “Del” Cruz 
Profile 
Full Name: Sgt. Delaney Cruz 
Nickname: “Del” 
Age: 36 
Occupation: Police Sergeant, Havenbay City Police Department — Harbor Ward Precinct. 
Game Archetype: The Protector / Reluctant Ally 
• Acts as a bridge between law enforcement and Ally. 
• Provides access to official records, resources, and tactical insight — but is constantly 
torn between protecting Ally and keeping her out of danger. 
• Archetypally, Del is the Shield: pragmatic, loyal, sometimes exasperated, but 
ultimately dependable. 
👮 Sgt. Delaney “Del” Cruz — Backstory 
Delaney “Del” Cruz was born and raised in Harbor Ward, the working-class heart of 
Havenbay City. Her parents immigrated from the Philippines in the early 1980s, chasing 
opportunity at the city’s shipping docks. Del grew up in a crowded but close-knit household 
above her mother’s small grocery store, surrounded by cousins, neighbors, and the sounds 
of the bay. 
As a teenager, Del was sharp-tongued and fiercely protective of her younger siblings. She 
often clashed with authority, but a community youth officer noticed her potential and 
nudged her toward police cadet programs. She saw policing as a way to shield her 
community from the exploitation, drugs, and gang activity that plagued Harbor Ward. 
Her early years on the force weren’t easy. Male colleagues underestimated her, supervisors 
dismissed her instincts, and she had to work twice as hard for recognition. But Del earned 
respect through persistence, a calm under pressure, and an unshakable sense of justice. She 
climbed to the rank of Sergeant in her mid-30s — younger than most, but not without 
scars. 
 
🔗 Key Life Events 
• Harbor Roots: Grew up near Kestrel Point Lighthouse — still visits when she needs 
perspective. Her tattoo of a kestrel symbolizes both freedom and vigilance. 
• First Major Case: As a rookie, she cracked a smuggling operation at the ferry terminal, 
though her superiors stole the credit. The lesson hardened her against internal 
politics. 
• Personal Loss: Her father, a dockworker, died in an “accidental” warehouse fire that 
was likely tied to organized crime. Official reports were inconclusive, but Del never 
forgot the feeling of truth being buried. 
• Crisis of Faith: Over the years, she has uncovered corruption within the Havenbay PD. 
She wrestles with loyalty to the badge vs. loyalty to the people she serves. 
 
🎭 Narrative Role 
Del becomes both foil and ally to Ally Quinn. At first, she’s skeptical of Ally’s involvement 
in investigations — after all, civilians shouldn’t meddle in active cases. But Del sees Ally’s 
fire and tenacity, reminiscent of her own younger self. Over time, she chooses to bend the 
rules to help Ally, supplying access to restricted files, backup in dangerous moments, and a 
grounded, practical perspective. 
She doesn’t see herself as a mentor — but to Ally, she is the cop who proves not all of 
Havenbay’s police are compromised. 
 
⚖️ Character Themes 
• Justice vs. Corruption: A cop trying to clean up a system from within. 
• Protector Instinct: Driven to shield those who can’t protect themselves. 
• Conflict of Loyalty: Between loyalty to the badge and loyalty to truth. 
• Anchor for Ally: Provides realism, training, and a protective bond without 
undermining Ally’s agency. 
 
    In short: Sgt. Delaney “Del” Cruz is the shield of Havenbay — forged by loss, hardened 
by injustice, yet still standing. Her backstory grounds her as a deeply personal ally to Ally, 
while also making her a symbol of integrity in a broken system. 
Appearance 
🧍 Character Appearance 
Height: 5’9” (175 cm) 
Build: Athletic, toned; compact strength from years on the job. 
     Face & Hair 
• Ancestry/Complexion: Filipino heritage; warm, tan skin tone. 
• Eyes: Dark brown, alert and expressive; often scanning for threats. 
• Hair: Black, cut short in a clean, low-maintenance police style. 
• Facial Hair: None — smooth-shaven, prefers a professional look. 
• Skin Features: Subtle freckles across her nose and cheeks, small scar above left 
eyebrow from a scuffle early in her career. 
• Distinctive Features: 
– Steady, no-nonsense gaze. 
– Athletic posture, confident stance. 
– Small tattoo of a kestrel on her right wrist, hidden beneath her watchband (ties 
to Havenbay’s Kestrel Point). 
 
👔 Clothing Style 
• Signature Outfit: Standard Havenbay Police Department blue uniform, fitted and 
pressed. When off duty, opts for jeans, plain tees, and a bomber jacket. 
• Shirt & Tie: On formal occasions, wears white shirt with dark navy tie beneath her 
dress blues. 
• Accessories: 
– Black utility belt with standard issue radio, cuffs, and firearm. 
– Wristwatch with a black leather strap, always punctual. 
– Silver Saint Michael medallion, a quiet gift from her late grandmother. 
• Style Notes: Clean, practical, efficient — Del values functionality over flair. Her look 
says: “prepared for anything.” 
🎭 Characteristics, Expression & Persona 
Default Expression: Calm, steady focus with a faint furrow between brows; looks like 
she’s always evaluating a situation. 
Secondary Moods: 
• Protective sternness when Ally pushes too far. 
• Dry humor in lighter moments, especially when breaking tension. 
• Exhaustion when weighed down by bureaucracy and corruption. 
Persona: 
• The Protector: A cop who wants to do right by her city but knows its systems are 
flawed. 
• Reluctant to let civilians interfere, but respects Ally’s passion. 
• Has a pragmatic streak: follows procedure but bends rules when justice demands it. 
 
    Props & Accessories 
• Police-issued Glock sidearm. 
• Notebook with clipped-on pen — filled with shorthand scrawlings. 
• Always carries a small packet of mints, nervous habit. 
      Signature Items 
• Her badge — symbol of her duty, carried with quiet pride despite the weight of 
corruption in the department. 
• The Saint Michael medallion — worn under her uniform, rarely spoken of but deeply 
personal. 
 
                Environmental Cues 
• Found at precinct offices, surrounded by whiteboards covered in evidence and 
coffee-stained reports. 
• On the streets, usually near Harbor Ward crime scenes or walking the Stonebridge 
Viaduct beat. 
• Occasionally glimpsed at a corner diner on night shift breaks, nursing black coffee. 
 
    Vibe & Keywords 
• Protector, Loyal Ally, Streetwise Cop, Justice vs. System, Reluctant Mentor, 
Shield. 
• Atmosphere: sirens in the distance, steam rising from manholes, quiet tension 
between law and order. 
 
            Personal Details 
• Favourite Movie: Training Day — admires its grit, hates its corruption. 
• Favourite Song: “Badlands” by Bruce Springsteen — resonates with her fight against 
a flawed system. 
• Favourite Colour: Navy blue — the color of her uniform, the color of resolve. 
• Favourite Food: Pork adobo with rice — comfort food tied to family tradition, 
reminds her of home. 
 
         In short: Sgt. Delaney “Del” Cruz is the pragmatic shield of Havenbay — a woman of 
duty, loyalty, and inner conflict. She embodies the city’s tension between justice and 
corruption, becoming both a foil and ally to Ally Quinn. 
 
Not Happy 

 
Inquisitive 

 
Ally Quinn 

Ally Quinn 
 
Ally Quinn 
Profile 
Full Name: Allison “Ally” Quinn 
Age: 26 
Canon Birth Date: 
Ally Quinn — March 30th, 1999 
• Astrological tie: Aries — curious, bold, action-oriented, and independent, traits that 
align perfectly with her character. 
• Symbolism: The tail end of March bridges winter and spring — reflective of Ally 
bridging tragedy (her father’s death) with renewal (her pursuit of truth). 
• Personal echo: This also matches your birthday, Stephen, making Ally’s profile subtly 
personal and meaningful. 
 
Occupation: Licensed Private Investigator & True-Crime Podcaster 
Podcast: Echoes of Havenbay 
 
Game Archetype: The Reluctant Hero — compelled by her father’s mysterious death, 
transforming from fledgling investigator into a force for truth 
When Ally Quinn was twelve, her father Thomas Quinn — a celebrated investigative 
journalist — died in a suspicious car crash. The official story never sat right with her 
grandfather, Gerald, a decorated detective who believed Thomas was silenced for digging 
too deep. 

Growing up under Helen Quinn’s steadying guidance and Gerald’s dogged suspicion, Ally 
inherited both resilience and a relentless drive for answers. She pursued criminal justice, 
becoming a licensed private investigator, while simultaneously launching a true-crime 
podcast, Echoes of Havenbay, as both creative outlet and investigative tool. 
At 26, Ally finds herself straddling two worlds: a professional PI solving local cases, and a 
podcaster uncovering stories the city would rather forget. As her cases begin overlapping 
with the same network of corruption her father was chasing — the Ferryman’s shadow — 
Ally is pulled deeper into the very conspiracy that stole him from her. 
Her story is one of transformation: from chasing fragments of her father’s ghost to 
becoming a truth-seeker in her own right, carving her own place in Havenbay’s noir 
labyrinth. 
MidJourney Prompt 
portrait of Ally Quinn, licensed private investigator and podcaster age 26, 
slim-athletic build, fair skin with subtle freckles across nose and cheeks, 
green-blue expressive eyes, auburn shoulder-length wavy hair tucked behind 
one ear, wearing a teal trench coat over dark top and jeans, scarf loosely 
wrapped, retro headphones around her neck, silver locket necklace, carrying a 
small leather satchel with podcast gear, standing on a rain-slicked city 
street with neon reflections, noir cinematic atmosphere, semi-realistic 
cartoon, graphic novel style, modern noir heroine --ar 2:3 --v 6 --style raw 
Appearance 
Height: 5’6" (167 cm) 
• Build: Slim–athletic, toned but not bulky — agile from constant movement rather than 
gym training. 
• Face & Hair: Oval face, inquisitive brows, faint freckles across her nose and cheeks. 
• Ancestry/Complexion: 3rd-generation American of English/French descent; light 
complexion. 
• Eyes: Green-blue, expressive, searching. 
• Hair: Auburn, shoulder-length waves, sometimes tucked behind one ear. 
• Facial Hair: None. 
• Skin Features: Subtle freckles; faint scar on temple from a childhood accident. 
• Distinctive Features: Bright, curious eyes; tendency to tilt her head slightly when 
puzzling through details. 
• Clothing Style: Smart-casual with vintage touches — layered clothing suited to urban 
sleuthing. 
• Signature Outfit: Teal trench coat over dark top and jeans; scarf in colder weather. 
• Accessories: Small leather satchel with podcast gear; retro headphones often draped 
around her neck; silver locket necklace (keeps a tiny photo of Thomas inside). 
Style Notes, Characteristics & Persona 
• Default Expression: Curious, focused; brows knit as if always parsing clues. 
• Secondary Moods: 
– Determined (on the trail) 
– Vulnerable (with Gerald or Helen) 
– Frustrated (when blocked by politics or power) 
• Persona: Inquisitive, thoughtful, tenacious — more observant than brash, but not 
afraid to push when cornered. 
• Props & Accessories: Portable recorder, notepad, camera. 
• Signature Items: Silver locket; satchel with podcast mic. 
• Environmental Cues: Dimly lit apartment-turned-office with pinned notes and case 
files; rain-slicked streets; the glow of a podcast mic late at night. 
• Vibe & Keywords: Modern noir, resilience, vulnerability beneath grit, legacy-driven 
heroine. 
• Favourite Movie: Spotlight — admires methodical truth-seeking. 
• Favourite Song: “Dog Days Are Over” by Florence + The Machine. 
• Favourite Colour: Teal (reflected in her trench coat). 
• Favourite Food: Pancakes at late-night diners; comfort ritual before or after cases. 
 
Startled 
 
Inquisitive 

 
Not Happy 
 
Image from Projects 

 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
Monetisation Roadmap 
A “Platinum Class Monetization Roadmap” is a comprehensive, player-centric strategy 
designed to maximize long-term revenue and player lifetime value (LTV) without 
compromising the game’s core integrity. It goes beyond simple IAPs by integrating 
monetization into the game’s live operations and content release schedule, making paid 
options feel like valuable, optional enhancements rather than mandatory walls. 
For Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge, a platinum class roadmap is built on a foundation of trust 
and respect for the player, as outlined in your business plan. This strategy focuses on 
rewarding high-engagement players and “dolphins” (the 25% of players who make 
occasional small purchases), rather than alienating them with aggressive paywalls. It would 

primarily be used to ensure sustainable revenue over multiple “seasons” of content, 
appealing to a dedicated, story-hungry player base. 
Here is a breakdown of what a “Platinum Class Monetization Roadmap” for your game 
would look like: 
1. The Season Pass: “Ally’s Case Notes Pass” 
The Season Pass is the cornerstone of a premium monetization strategy. It encourages 
consistent engagement over a defined period (e.g., 28 or 30 days) and provides a clear 
long-term progression path beyond the main story. 
• How it Works: Players progress through two tiers simultaneously as they complete 
merge tasks and solve cases: a Free Tier and a Premium Tier. The Premium Tier is 
unlocked with a one-time purchase at the start of each new “season” or chapter. 
• What it’s Used For: It provides a predictable revenue stream and increases player 
retention by giving them a powerful, long-term goal. It also offers a significant 
incentive for players to return daily. 
Content for a “Case Notes Pass” 
• Free Tier Rewards: These rewards are earned by all players and are essential for 
maintaining the free-to-play experience. 
– Small gem bundles. 
– Booster packs. 
– Energy refills. 
– In-game currency (Coins). 
– Profile badges for completing the free path. 
• Premium Tier Rewards: These are exclusive, high-value rewards for paying players. 
– Premium Gems: Larger bundles of the premium currency. 
– Exclusive Cosmetics: Unique outfits for Ally, new themes for her office, or 
special UI skins that reflect her noir aesthetic. 
– Instant Merges & Boosters: The ability to merge items without a cooldown or 
instantly acquire high-level items for a set period. 
– Bonus “Side Cases”: Short, optional mini-mysteries that add to the game’s lore 
without being essential to the main story. For example, a “Lost & Found” case 
that requires players to merge unique items to uncover a hidden secret about a 
secondary character. 
– “Director’s Cut” Podcasts: Premium pass owners could unlock an extended 
version of each case’s podcast episode, with extra commentary or “deleted 
scenes.” 
2. Live Operations (LiveOps) Strategy 
LiveOps refers to all the content updates and events that keep the game fresh post-launch. 
For Ally Quinn, a platinum class LiveOps strategy would use the game’s narrative structure 
to create compelling, time-limited events that drive engagement and monetization. 
• How it Works: A calendar of special events would be created, designed to tie in with 
the game’s story and real-world holidays or themes. 
• What it’s Used For: To sustain player interest between major content drops, re-
engage lapsed players, and create new monetization opportunities. 
Sample LiveOps Events 
• Weekly “Cold Case Files”: A new, short-form case is released each week that provides 
a mini-mystery for players to solve. These cases could have a leaderboard to 
encourage competition and offer exclusive rewards. 
• Seasonal “Havenbay Holiday” Events: 
– Halloween Event: A special murder mystery case with a spooky theme. The 
event would feature unique merge trees (e.g., a “Haunted House” tree) and 
exclusive cosmetic rewards (a ghost-themed Ally outfit or new spooky UI). 
– Christmas Event: A “Stolen Presents” case with a winter wonderland theme, 
offering unique rewards like a “Santa’s Bag” merge tree. 
• “Case Breaker’s Challenge”: A daily or weekly challenge that tasks the player with 
creating a high-level item in a limited amount of time. The challenge would offer a 
significant reward, and players could purchase boosters to complete it more easily. 
3. Comprehensive IAP and Ad Strategy 
This roadmap builds on your existing plan for IAPs and rewarded ads by formalizing a 
strategy to cater to all player types, from free players to high-spending users (“whales”). 
• How it Works: By offering a range of IAPs and a well-tuned rewarded ad system, you 
give players options to support the game in the way they prefer. 
• What it’s Used For: To convert non-spenders into “dolphins” and provide high-
spenders with high-value purchases. 
IAP and Ad Monetization Items 
• First-Time Buyer Pack: A highly compelling, one-time offer for new players, priced at 
$0.99, to lower the barrier to the first purchase. The pack could include a starter 
amount of premium currency and a unique profile badge. 
• “Podcast Sponsorship” (Ad-Free IAP): A single purchase that removes all non-
optional ads. This caters to players who value an uninterrupted experience and are 
willing to pay for it, potentially increasing their overall LTV. 
• “Detective’s Stash” (Whale Pack): A high-value bundle that offers a large number of 
boosters, premium currency, and a unique, high-tier cosmetic item (e.g., a rare Ally 
outfit). This provides a direct path for the highest-spending players to show their 
support. 
• Rewarded Ads: Strategically placed ads that provide a tangible benefit, such as a 
temporary energy refill or a random low-level item. They should be offered at key 
points, such as after a player runs out of energy, so they don’t feel like a forced 
interruption. 
• Bundles & Sales: Offer limited-time bundles of boosters, currency, and cosmetics on a 
weekly basis to create a sense of urgency and drive impulse purchases. 
 
Image from Projects 
30 Day Vertical Slice Project 
Table element string placeholder 

Game Setting: Havenbay City 
Place 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
Logline 
A rain‑soaked coastal metropolis where ship horns cut through fog and neon. Havenbay 
City looks like a refuge, but its bay shelters old money, new schemes, and secrets that wash 
ashore when the tide turns. 
Personality & Mood 
• Tone: Contemporary noir — warm lamplight against cold rain, hope under pressure. 
• Weather: Frequent drizzle and sea fog; sudden, dramatic clears at golden hour. 
• Palette: Muted blues/greys, oxidized copper, wet asphalt; accents of sodium‑amber, 
teal neon, and police blue. 
• Sounds: Distant foghorns, gulls, trolley brakes, jazz from basement bars, scanner 
chatter. 
Districts (playable hubs) 
1. Old Docks & Harbor Ward – Warehouses, fish markets, tugboats, “keep out” doors. 
– Landmarks: Pier 13, Kestrel Point Lighthouse, The Rusty Anchor (Moira 
“Mo” Callahan’s bar). 
– Vibe: Grit, union halls, cash-in-hand deals. 

2. Downtown Civic Row – City Hall, courts, marble façades, press scrums. 
– Landmarks: Havenbay City Hall, Hart Civic Center, Havenbay Gazette 
building. 
– Vibe: Suits, donors, “official statements.” 
3. Stonebridge Viaduct – Elevated rail, under‑bridge camps, mural corridors. 
– Landmarks: Bayline elevated tracks, Nova Skye murals, informant meet spots. 
– Vibe: Transit clang, whispered trades. 
4. Highcliff Heights – Moneyed overlook of the bay, private security patrols. 
– Landmarks: Voss Group HQ (Dante Voss), gated terraces. 
– Vibe: Quiet streets, loud lawyers. 
5. Rivermouth Industrial – Foundries, scrapyards, chop shops. 
– Landmarks: Malone’s Auto (Frankie), freight spurs, decommissioned silos. 
– Vibe: Sparks at midnight, deals at dawn. 
6. Havenbay University & Arts Quarter – Coffeehouses, labs, student radio. 
– Landmarks: Forensics partnerships, community theater, indie press. 
– Vibe: Idealists, whistleblowers, late‑night threads. 
Power & Pressure Points 
• City Hall/Politics: Councillor Evelyn Hart steers redevelopment optics; favors behind 
closed doors. 
• Underworld: Silas Vex trades information like currency; The Ferryman makes 
problems… disappear (leaves a coin). 
• Private Force: Dante Voss (ex‑Special Forces) sells “security solutions” to anyone 
who pays. 
• Law: Captain Dana Drake runs a tight precinct; Sgt. Delaney “Del” Cruz keeps it 
human; Benji Park is the heart. 
• Science: Dr. Priya Shah (forensics) + Dr. Lionel Cortez (ME) translate traces into 
truths. 
• Media: Arthur Finch (Gazette) and Ally Quinn (podcast: Echoes of Havenbay). Alex 
Vega works the digital alleys. 
History in Four Beats 
1. Harbor Origins – Fishing town → shipyards; immigrant neighborhoods lay the city’s 
backbone. 
2. War Boom – Industry spikes; docks expand; unions gain leverage and enemies. 
3. Bust & “Renewal” – Deindustrialization, blight, and aggressive redevelopment deals. 
4. The Quiet Scandal – Years ago, journalist Thomas Quinn dies in a “rainy accident” 
(laptop missing). Files scatter; whispers persist. 
Landmarks (artist anchors) 
• Kestrel Point Lighthouse – Fog silhouettes, key rendezvous. 
• Pier 13 – Ferryman lore; coins sometimes found near pylons. 
• Stonebridge Viaduct – Iconic noir geometry; Nova’s murals hide clues. 
• Havenbay Archives – Arthur Finch’s domain; dim bulbs, paper dust. 
• The Rusty Anchor – Mo’s amber‑lit hub; cops and crooks mind their manners. 
• Bayline Elevated – Night trains, rain spark, skyline peeks. 
• Hart Civic Center – Press podiums, escalators, reflected flashbulbs. 
• Voss Group HQ – Mirror‑glass fortress with private cameras watching the street. 
Law & Crime Landscape 
• HCPD (Havenbay City Police): procedure vs. optics, warrants vs. leaks. 
• Criminal Economy: Port smuggling, development graft, data‑theft, “security” jobs that 
look like intimidation. 
• Folk Myths: The Ferryman’s coin; a ledger no one can subpoena. 
Culture & Daily Life 
• Food: Chowders, pier dumplings, midnight diners; union breakfasts at 5 a.m. 
• Nightlife: Basement jazz, karaoke over rain, late‑shift bars where deals start. 
• Community: Dockworkers’ festival once a year; mural walks under the Viaduct. 
Gameplay Hooks (merge‑mystery) 
• District Boards: Each district = merge board with localized evidence (harbor 
manifests, court dockets, CCTV fragments). 
• Time & Weather: Rain unlocks reflections (photographic clues); fog dampens 
visibility (extra steps to refine clues). 
• Public Pressure Meter: Ally’s podcast episodes shift NPC behaviors, open/close 
doors. 
• Chain‑of‑Custody: Combine raw clue → cleaned sample → lab result → admissible 
evidence for higher‑tier merges. 
• Favors Ledger: Spend social capital with Mo, Del, Finch, Nova; earn it back via side 
jobs. 
Artist Style Guide (environment) 
• Lighting: Rim‑lit figures, warm interiors vs. wet exteriors; sodium/teal contrast. 
• Materials: Wet stone, rusted steel, salt‑bleached wood, rain‑smeared glass. 
• Typography: Painted dock signs, enamel street plates, serif courthouse plaques. 
• Framing: 50mm “street portrait” feel; low angles under the Viaduct; reflections as 
motif. 
Quick Name Bank (streets & places) 
Bayview Ave • Lantern Street • Mariner’s Row • Foundry Lane • Orchard Steps • Harbor 
View Court • Wickham Pier • Kestrel Road • Stonebridge Way • Dock 9 Diner • The Blue 
Lantern Motel 
Society & Structures 
 
Image from Projects 
🏙️ Havenbay City: Society & Structures 
👥 Inhabitants 
• Population: ~480,000 — big enough to feel like a true city, small enough that 
“everyone knows someone.” 
• Ethnic & Cultural Mix: Harbor roots = strong immigrant communities (Irish, Italian, 
Filipino, Latino, Eastern European dockworkers). More recent arrivals = tech 
freelancers, students, and gentrifiers. 

• Class Divide: The city is split between blue-collar harbor wards (dockers, 
mechanics, longshore unions) and high-rises on Highcliff Heights (politicians, 
developers, lawyers). 
• Street Life: Music from basement bars, murals under viaducts, union halls, family 
diners — a city where community and corruption coexist. 
 
🏛️ Social Structure 
• Working Class: Dockworkers, factory hands, small business owners — the 
“heartbeat” of Havenbay. 
• Middle Class: Teachers, civil servants, police, reporters, shopkeepers — they keep 
institutions running. 
• Elite: Old-money families (real estate, shipping magnates), and new-money political 
players like Councillor Evelyn Hart and corporate security outfits (Dante Voss’ 
clients). 
• Underground: Black market informants (Silas Vex), hustlers, and organized crime; 
tolerated so long as they don’t interfere with “respectable” interests. 
 
⚖️ Politics 
• City Hall: Officially run by a Mayor and City Council; unofficially steered by business 
donors and hidden patrons. 
• Councillor Evelyn Hart: A polished face of “progress” who quietly enables corruption. 
• Power Centers: 
– Developers pushing gentrification in Old Docks. 
– Police Union lobbying for bigger budgets. 
– Shipping Guilds controlling port commerce. 
• Public Sentiment: Cynical; most residents assume deals are struck in back rooms. 
Ally’s podcast has cult appeal because it “says the things the papers won’t.” 
 
⛪ Religion 
• Christian Churches: A mix of Catholic and Protestant congregations tied to immigrant 
roots. 
• Community Hubs: Churches double as soup kitchens, shelters, and informal meeting 
points. 
• Other Faiths: Small but vibrant Jewish, Muslim, and Buddhist communities, often tied 
to specific neighborhoods. 
• Tone: In Havenbay, religion is less about doctrine and more about community 
support. Priests, rabbis, and imams often act as moral anchors, but rarely wield 
political power. 
• Noir Angle: A half-empty cathedral in the Old Quarter, with flickering candles and 
echoing footsteps, makes a perfect backdrop for tense meetings. 
 
🎓 Education 
• Public Schools: Underfunded, overcrowded, teachers stretched thin — Helen Quinn 
(Ally’s mother) is a respected school principal fighting daily battles. 
• Private Academies: Elite prep schools in Highcliff Heights, feeding into Ivy League–
style colleges. 
• Havenbay University: Known for journalism and forensic sciences; students are 
socially active, often joining protests or citizen campaigns. 
• Street Education: Graffiti, oral history, and community mentors (like Gerald Quinn at 
the precinct in his day) shape young voices outside formal classrooms. 
 
⚙️ Industries 
• Shipping & Harbor Trade: The bay is the city’s lifeline — containers, ferries, fishing 
fleets. 
• Manufacturing (Declining): Old factories and foundries still run in Rivermouth 
Industrial, but automation and outsourcing hollowed out jobs. 
• Construction & Development: Massive new projects reshaping the waterfront, often 
corrupt. 
• Media: Havenbay Gazette, local radio, and Ally’s independent podcast — journalism is 
fractured, controlled by powerful interests except for a few defiant voices. 
• Black & Grey Markets: Smuggling through the docks, counterfeit goods, private 
security “consulting,” data-for-hire. 
• Emerging Tech: A small but growing startup scene around Havenbay University, 
creating tension with traditional industries. 
 
         In short: Havenbay City is a coastal crossroads where working-class grit, political 
corruption, and cultural resilience collide. It feels alive because its institutions are 
flawed but its people are stubborn, proud, and full of secrets. 
 
Culture 
 
Image from Projects 
🍽️ Food 
• Dockside Fare: Chowders, fried fish sandwiches, pier dumplings sold from steam 
carts. Salty, hearty, portable meals for shift workers. 
• Late-Night Staples: Greasy spoon diners with endless coffee, neon ramen joints, taco 
trucks near industrial yards. 
• Highcliff Heights Cuisine: Power-lunch steak houses, fusion restaurants with 
panoramic bay views, private wine clubs. 
• Community Flavor: Italian bakeries in Little Calabrese, Filipino lumpia stands near 
the university, Irish pubs serving shepherd’s pie. 
• Noir Flavor Hook: Meals happen at odd hours — cops grab chowder at 2 a.m., 
informants whisper over whiskey and stew. 
 
👗 Fashion 
• Working Class: Durable boots, flannel shirts, dock coats; grease-stained coveralls in 
Rivermouth Industrial. 
• Police & Officials: Crisp uniforms, pressed slacks, sensible shoes; off-duty, leather 
jackets and jeans. 
• Young & Artistic: Streetwear, oversized hoodies, hand-painted denim, thrift-store 
chic; Nova Skye’s circles use their clothes as canvases. 
• Elite: Tailored suits, trench coats, silk blouses, statement jewellery — polished, with 
subtle nods to old money. 

• Overall Aesthetic: Practical layers for rain and wind, noir silhouettes (trench coats, 
fedoras, scarves) echo classic crime fiction. 
 
🚇 Transport 
• Bayline Elevated Rail: Iconic viaduct trains clattering across the city, graffiti on 
pillars. 
• Streetcars & Buses: Worn but reliable; dim bulbs flicker, fares often skipped. 
• Ferries: Connect harbor districts, with foghorns cutting through mist. 
• Taxis & Rideshares: Yellow cabs still dominate; drivers double as informants. 
• Private Transport: Black SUVs with tinted windows = politicians, security firms, and 
criminals. 
• Citizen Feel: Cars are common but parking scarce; streets always glisten with rain and 
neon reflections. 
 
💻 Technology 
• Everyday: Smartphones, public Wi-Fi dead zones, cyber cafés in old arcades. 
• Policing: Outdated desktop systems in precincts, fingerprint scanners that half-work, 
CCTV feeds often sabotaged. 
• Hackers: Alex Vega & crews tap into underfunded digital infrastructure — easy prey 
for intrusion. 
• Corporates: Highcliff Heights skyscrapers run gleaming glass-walled data centers. 
• Contrast: A city caught between analog grit and digital intrusion; police reports on 
paper still matter as much as hacked servers. 
 
🎭 Arts 
• Murals & Graffiti: Under Stonebridge Viaduct, coded messages and vibrant murals 
(Nova Skye’s territory). 
• Theater & Music: A struggling opera house, smoky basement jazz clubs, punk shows 
in warehouses. 
• University Quarter: Indie zines, film screenings, activist art collectives. 
• Mainstream: Highcliff galleries sponsor “modern art,” often used as fronts for 
laundering. 
• Noir Flavor: Art is rebellion and code — messages hidden in color, meaning carried 
by those who know where to look. 
 
🏈 Sports 
• Havenbay Mariners (Baseball): Local pride, harbor-themed minor league team; 
working-class families pack games. 
• Bay City Sharks (Hockey): Fierce, gritty; games often end in bar fights. 
• Streetball & Boxing: Courts under viaducts, underground gyms; Frankie Malone 
sponsors amateur bouts. 
• Youth Sports: High school football rivalries stir neighborhoods; Helen Quinn (as 
principal) often attends games. 
• Symbolism: Sports act as both community glue and distraction from corruption — 
the city unites for the Mariners but fractures once the lights go off. 
 
         Together these layers make Havenbay City alive beyond the mystery — a place where 
food stalls, old trams, zines, and late-night diners all coexist with corruption, secrets, and 
fog. 
Transport Hubs 
 
Airport 
 
Ferry Port 

 
Train Station 
Havenbay City — Transport Hubs 
🛫 1. Havenbay International Airport (HIA) 
• Location: Edge of Rivermouth Industrial, near reclaimed land. 
• Role: Connects the city to the world; doubles as a smuggling route. 
• Visuals: Brutalist concrete, glass atriums, fog delays, cargo stacks. 
• Narrative Hooks: 
– Smuggling & missing cargo (Silas Vex’s operations). 
– Private jets = political corruption (Councillor Hart, Dante Voss). 
– Symbol of escape or disappearance (witnesses, whistleblowers). 
 
⛴️ 2. Harbor Ferry Terminal 
• Location: Central waterfront, between Old Docks and Civic Row. 
• Role: Connects neighborhoods across the bay, with commuter ferries, fishing trawlers, 
and tourist boats. 
• Visuals: Iron gangways, flickering lamps, gulls circling, foghorns blaring. 
• Narrative Hooks: 
– Bodies or evidence found in lockers, under pylons. 
– Neutral meeting point: cops, criminals, and civilians rub shoulders. 
– Perfect noir setting for shadowy “handoffs.” 
 
🚆 3. Bayline Central Station 
• Location: Downtown, beneath the Stonebridge Viaduct. 

• Role: Main hub for elevated rail + regional trains, linking to suburbs and smaller 
towns. 
• Visuals: Grand old station now partly run-down, with neon kiosks and echoing tiled 
halls. 
• Narrative Hooks: 
– Witnesses or suspects caught fleeing town. 
– Graffiti coded with messages (Nova Skye’s network). 
– Political rallies staged on its plaza. 
 
🚍 4. Havenbay Bus Terminal 
• Location: Civic Row, near City Hall. 
• Role: Primary hub for working-class commutes, especially from Rivermouth and 
Harbor Ward. 
• Visuals: Fluorescent lights, cracked tile floors, public notices on cork boards. 
• Narrative Hooks: 
– Anonymous travel for low-level operatives. 
– Lost & found items turning up as clues. 
– Rumors overheard from travelers and night-shift drivers. 
 
🚖 5. Street Taxis & Informal Networks 
• Everywhere: Yellow cabs dominate downtown; black-market rides in unlicensed 
sedans run out of Old Docks. 
• Narrative Hooks: 
– Cab drivers as informants. 
– Getaway scenes & stakeouts. 
– Taxi medallion mafia connections. 
Rusty Anchor 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
 
Image from Projects 
🍺 Location Profile: The Rusty Anchor 
Name: The Rusty Anchor 
Type: Dockside bar / community hub / neutral ground 
Location: Harbor Ward, Havenbay City — one block from the waterfront, overlooking the 
cargo slips. 
Built: 1924, originally a longshoremen’s tavern near the old ferry docks. 
Size: Medium — seating ~60 inside (20 bar stools, 8 booths, 6 tables) with a small rear 
courtyard that serves as a smoking area and occasional acoustic stage. 
 
🏚️ Description & Atmosphere 
• The Rusty Anchor is weathered but welcoming, a patchwork of decades layered on 
top of each other. The floorboards creak, the bar counter is scarred with carvings of 

initials and union slogans, and the mismatched stools are smooth from generations of 
dockers and regulars. 
• Inside, the amber glow of hanging lamps cuts through the harbor gloom. The walls are 
lined with maritime relics: old ship wheels, rusted anchors, sea charts, faded union 
banners, and photos of long-gone fishing crews. 
• It smells of salt air, smoke, and whiskey — an earthy comfort Havenbay locals 
associate with home. 
 
🗺️ History 
• 1924: Founded by Patrick Callahan, Moira’s grandfather, as a tavern for dockworkers 
after long shifts. Originally called Callahan’s Dockside. 
• 1940s: Survived Prohibition-era crackdowns by running as a “soda shop” front, but 
everyone knew the back room served stronger drinks. 
• 1970s: Renamed The Rusty Anchor by Moira’s father, Seamus Callahan, after he 
salvaged an actual rusted anchor from a shipwreck and mounted it outside the bar. 
This became the tavern’s icon. 
• 2000s: Inherited by Moira “Mo” Callahan, who restored it but kept the grit and 
authenticity. She turned it into a community hub, adding food service, live music 
nights, and a reputation as a “neutral ground” for cops, dockers, and street players 
alike. 
 
🪑 Layout & Features 
• Front Bar: Long oak counter, back wall lined with bottles, dusty mirror, brass taps. 
• Booths: A dozen booths, some tucked into shadow. One back booth (“the Anchor 
Booth”) is considered the unofficial confessional, where secrets are exchanged. 
• The Courtyard: A brick-walled space with string lights, used for smoking and local 
musicians. 
• The Office: Mo’s locked office upstairs, with ledgers, old matchbooks, and a shoebox of 
favors owed. 
• Landmark: The Rusty Anchor itself — bolted to the wall outside, salt-stained and 
barnacled, lit by a battered green neon sign. 
 
🥘 Menu (Sample Offerings) 
Moira runs a dockside kitchen: hearty, simple meals built to feed hungry crews. 
Food 
• Shepherd’s Pie — the house specialty, passed down from her mother. 
• Fish & Chips — fresh from Havenbay’s trawlers, wrapped in old newsprint. 
• Chowder of the Day — thick, creamy, with whatever came off the boats that morning. 
• Rusty Anchor Burger — double patty, melted cheddar, grilled onions, “anchor sauce” 
(a smoky aioli). 
• Fried Pickles & Ale-battered Onion Rings — classic bar snacks. 
Drinks 
• Callahan’s Stout — the house beer, brewed by a local microbrewery to Mo’s family 
recipe. 
• Dockhand’s Whiskey — cheap, rough, served in chipped tumblers. 
• The Anchor Drop (Signature Cocktail) — dark rum, ginger beer, lime, splash of 
bitters, named for the bar. 
• Irish Coffee — Mo’s personal favorite, poured strong. 
• Standard domestic & imported beers on tap. 
 
🎭 Character & Role in Story 
• Neutral Ground: Fights rarely break out at The Rusty Anchor — not because they 
don’t want to, but because Mo has a reputation for kicking out everyone involved, 
regardless of rank or gang. That truce makes it an invaluable setting for informants, 
cops, and criminals to share the same room. 
• Lore Vault: The walls are covered in decades of history, and the back booth has heard 
confessions that could topple men in high office. Mo keeps confidences like she keeps 
her books: private, balanced, and only revealed when necessary. 
• Gerald Quinn’s Second Home: Gerald has been a regular for decades — he and Mo 
share an unspoken bond of loyalty. Ally inherits that trust. 
• Community Anchor: The Rusty Anchor feeds dockworkers who can’t afford much, 
runs tabs for regulars, and puts up missing persons flyers when the police don’t 
bother. 
 
🎬 Backstory in Havenbay Context 
The Rusty Anchor is more than a bar — it’s a living archive of Havenbay’s working-class 
soul. It survived Prohibition, gang wars, fires, and economic collapse. Its weathered planks 
and crooked neon sign embody the city’s resilience. 
When Thomas Quinn was alive, he often met sources at The Rusty Anchor — Mo made sure 
he ate, and Gerald made sure he wasn’t hassled. After his death, Mo quietly became one of 
Ally’s protectors, offering her both a stage (information) and a shield (warnings of which 
streets to avoid). 
For Ally, The Rusty Anchor becomes both a home base and a test: it’s where she earns the 
trust of Havenbay’s people, not just its institutions. 
 
   In summary: The Rusty Anchor is Havenbay’s beating heart in Harbor Ward — a place 
of secrets, solidarity, and survival. It is as much a character as any person in Ally Quinn’s 
world. 
Glossary 
Glossary 
Analytics & UA (User Acquisition) 
• ARPDAU (Average Revenue Per Daily Active User) – Total revenue for a day ÷ 
number of unique users who played that day. A sharp read on daily monetisation 
health. 
• ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) – Revenue over a period ÷ all active users in that 
period (payers and non-payers). 
• ARPPU (Average Revenue Per Paying User) – Revenue over a period ÷ number of 
payers in that period. Shows spender intensity. 
• DAU / WAU / MAU – Daily / Weekly / Monthly Active Users. Core engagement KPIs. 
• Stickiness (DAU/MAU) – DAU ÷ MAU. A proxy for how habit-forming the game is 
(e.g., 20%+ is strong). 
• Retention D1 / D7 / D30 – % of users who return 1/7/30 days post-install. Measures 
onboarding, core loop pull, and longer-term value. 
• CPI (Cost Per Install) – Average ad spend required to get one install. 
• IPM (Installs Per Mille) – Installs per 1,000 ad impressions. Creative quality 
barometer; closely tied to CPI. 
• CTR (Click-Through Rate) – Clicks ÷ impressions for an ad. Indicates the hook’s 
appeal. 
• CVR (Conversion Rate) – Installs ÷ clicks (or store page views). Measures store listing 
effectiveness. 
• ROAS (Return on Ad Spend) – Revenue ÷ ad spend for a cohort/time window (e.g., 
D7, D30, D90). 
• LTV (Lifetime Value) – Forecast of total revenue per user over time. Compared to CPI 
to judge scalability. 
• Cohort – A group of users who start during the same time window (e.g., install date) 
used for apples-to-apples comparisons. 
• Funnel – Sequential steps users take (e.g., Ad → Store → Install → Tutorial → Case 1). 
Used to locate drop-offs. 
• Event Taxonomy – The structured list of analytics events and parameters you track 
(e.g., merge, energy_spent, case_complete). 
• A/B Test – Controlled experiment with two (or more) variants to isolate impact on 
metrics (e.g., energy regen A vs B). 
• Attribution – Determining which ad/traffic source produced an install. Post-iOS 14 
this is heavily privacy-gated. 
Monetisation & Economy 
• IAP (In-App Purchase) – Paid items (e.g., energy refills, boosters, season pass). 
• IAA (In-App Advertising) – Revenue from ads shown to players (e.g., rewarded 
videos). 
• eCPM (Effective Cost Per Mille) – Ad revenue per 1,000 impressions; key ads KPI. 
• Rewarded Video (RV) – Opt-in ad that grants a benefit (energy, currency, rerolls). 
• Interstitial – Full-screen ad between screens/sessions. Use sparingly to protect tone. 
• Banner / App Open Ad – Smaller, persistent formats; generally lower yield and more 
intrusive. 
• Season Pass / Battle Pass – Time-boxed track with free/premium rewards for 
completing tasks. In AQ, focus on story-friendly rewards. 
• Soft Currency / Hard Currency – Earnable in-game money (soft) vs premium 
purchased currency (hard). 
• Sink / Source – A sink removes currency/items from the economy; a source 
introduces them. Balance prevents inflation or scarcity stalls. 
• Gacha / Loot Box – Randomised reward mechanic (use cautiously given tone and 
regulations). 
• Pity Timer – Guaranteed reward after X unsuccessful attempts; fairness mechanism. 
• Live Ops – Time-limited events, offers, and content updates that keep the game lively 
post-launch. 
Game Design & Narrative 
• Merge Board – The grid playfield where players combine items to higher tiers. 
• Merge Tier / Chain / Tree – The progressive levels and path for an item line (e.g., 
Dusting Powder → Fingerprint Card → Labeled Prints → Digital Scanner → Database 
Match). 
• Drop Table – Probabilities for item spawns/drops from generators or actions. 
• Objective Panel – UI showing current case objectives and progress. 
• Energy / Stamina – Time-gated action resource; tune via Remote Config to match 
binge habits. 
• Booster / Power-Up – Consumable that accelerates board progress or cleans 
obstacles. 
• FTUE / FTUX (First-Time User Experience) – The onboarding/tutorial arc from first 
launch to first “I get it and it’s fun” moment. 
• Churn – When a user stops playing for a defined period (e.g., 7/14/30 days). 
• Meta-Progression – Persistent advancement outside the immediate puzzle (e.g., 
Evidence Wall, season casefile). 
• Evidence Wall – Persistent screen where clues/suspects connect across episodes and 
seasons. 
• Red Herring – A misleading clue used for tension without betraying fairness. 
• Noir-Lite – Aesthetic and tone: moody, investigative, shadowed—stylised, not grim. 
Production, Builds & Release 
• Prototype – Quickest possible test to validate the core loop’s fun and feasibility. 
• Vertical Slice – A polished, representative slice of the intended final quality across 
gameplay, art, and narrative. 
• Alpha – Feature-complete enough for internal testing; content and polish still 
advancing. 
• Beta – Content-complete; bug-fixing and balancing in focus. 
• RC (Release Candidate) – A build that could ship if tests pass. 
• Soft Launch – Limited regional release to validate KPIs, balance, and UA before global 
rollout. 
• Global Launch – Worldwide release after soft-launch goals are hit. 
• SDK (Software Development Kit) – Library from a platform or vendor (ads, 
analytics) integrated into the app. 
• LTS (Long-Term Support) – Vendor’s stable release line receiving reliability and 
security updates (e.g., Unity LTS). 
Platforms, Tools & Products (What they are + why we use them) 
• Unity (Game Engine) – Cross-platform engine used to build AQ. Chosen for robust 2D 
tooling, wide mobile support, and a mature ecosystem. 
• Unity URP (Universal Render Pipeline) – Unity’s modern renderer. In 2D, gives 
performant lights/shadows and crisp visuals on mobile with predictable frame-times. 
• Unity Addressables – Unity system for packaging, loading, and updating assets at 
runtime. Keeps initial download small and memory use sane. 
• Unity Sprite Atlas – Packs multiple sprites into one texture to reduce draw calls and 
improve performance. 
• Firebase (Google) – Mobile backend services. In AQ: 
– Firebase Analytics – Event tracking for funnels, retention, ARPDAU, etc. 
– Firebase Remote Config – Server-side tuning (energy regen, drop rates) 
without new builds. 
– Firebase Cloud Save / Firestore / Storage – Player progress sync and remote 
data. 
– Firebase A/B Testing – Experiments powered by Analytics + Remote Config. 
• App Store Connect (Apple) – App submissions, TestFlight, metadata, and analytics 
for iOS. 
• TestFlight (Apple) – Beta distribution to testers on iOS. 
• Google Play Console (Android) – App publishing, internal/closed/open testing, store 
listing experiments, Android vitals. 
• SKAdNetwork (SKAN, Apple) – Privacy-preserving attribution framework for iOS 
installs and post-install events. 
• ATT (App Tracking Transparency, Apple) – iOS prompt controlling access to IDFA 
for tracking. Impacts attribution/targeting. 
• IDFA / GAID – Apple/Google advertising identifiers (user-resettable). Increasingly 
restricted by privacy policy changes. 
• Meta Ads / Google App Campaigns (UAC) – Primary UA channels for mobile games; 
creative- and signal-driven. 
Compliance, Privacy & Ratings 
• GDPR / CCPA – EU/California privacy laws; require data transparency, consent, and 
deletion options. 
• COPPA – US child privacy law; even if not a kids’ app, ensure age-gating prevents 
accidental violations. 
• App Store Age Ratings (12+ / 17+) – Apple content descriptors; AQ aims for 
investigative themes without gore to avoid 17+ where possible. 
• Google Play Content Rating – Android content classification (IARC-backed). 
• ESRB / PEGI / ACB – North American, European, and Australian classification bodies. 
Useful for external comms and market expectations. 
App Store Presence & Marketing 
• ASO (App Store Optimisation) – Improving store assets (title, subtitle, screenshots, 
keywords) to boost organic conversion. 
• Feature Banner / Editorial – Storefront placements curated by Apple/Google; driven 
by quality, novelty, and relationships. 
• Store Listing Experiments – A/B testing of icons, screenshots, and copy (especially 
on Google Play). 
• App Preview / Play Store Video – Short trailers demonstrating gameplay and core 
hook (e.g., “solve merges → unlock podcast episode”). 
• KSP (Key Selling Proposition) – Core promise that differentiates the game (e.g., 
“Solve cases and unlock produced podcast episodes”). 
Performance & Technical 
• Frame Time / FPS – Time per frame; target stable 60 FPS on mid-tier devices for 
responsive feel. 
• Build Size – Final app package size. Controlled via Addressables, texture compression 
(ASTC/ETC2), and audio settings. 
• Crash-Free Users / Sessions – Stability KPI. High stability correlates with retention 
and store ratings. 
• Memory Budget – Targeted RAM usage; crucial for low-end Android devices. 
• Texture Compression (ASTC/ETC2) – Mobile GPU-friendly formats that reduce 
memory and size while preserving quality. 
 
Optional project-specific terms (include if used in your doc) 
• Evidence Generator – A board item that periodically spawns lower-tier clues. 
• Case File – The narrative container for each episode’s objectives, suspects, and twists. 
• Suspect Gallery – UI catalogue of persons of interest, updated as merges reveal intel. 
• Story Pass – Premium track that accelerates story progression without locking core 
content. 
• Binge Window – Intended continuous playtime before energy gating (e.g., 20–30 
minutes). 
Table element string placeholder 
Brainstorming 
MiniGames 2 
Table element string placeholder 
1. Lie Detection (Inspired by Sherlock Holmes: Crimes and Punishments and Ace 
Attorney) 
• Description: During a suspect interrogation (framed as a podcast interview), players 
watch a short animated dialogue sequence. Tap to highlight “tells” (e.g., fidgeting 
animations, inconsistent statements) or choose from 2-3 response options to probe 
lies. Success reveals a new clue; failure leads to a red herring (but no hard fail—retry 
with ad hint). 
• Why Ideal: Fits the episodic narrative (e.g., post-merge debriefs); adds tension 
without gore, echoing true crime podcasts like Crime Junkie where hosts dissect 
interviews. 
• Involvement Boost: Shifts from passive merging to active deduction; choices 
influence relationship scores (as in your GDD), making players feel like Ally. 
• Implementation: Use Unity Animator for expressions; quick-time events (QTE) via 
Input touches. Low asset needs (reuse character portraits). 
2. Evidence Web (Inspired by Disco Elysium and Tangle Tower) 
• Description: Players drag lines to connect merged clues on a mind-map UI (e.g., link a 
“fingerprint” to a “suspect photo” and “motive note”). Correct connections unlock a 
hypothesis; mismatches prompt hints. 
• Why Ideal: Mirrors the “chain-of-custody” in your GDD, tying merges to broader 
conspiracies like The Ferryman. 
• Involvement Boost: Encourages strategic thinking over mindless taps; reveals story 
lore, making merging feel purposeful. 
• Implementation: Unity’s Line Renderer or UI elements; scriptable objects for clue 
data. Procedural for variety (randomize connections per case). 
3. Forensic Match (Inspired by Criminal Case and Detroit: Become Human) 
• Description: Compare samples (e.g., match fingerprints or DNA strands) by 
tapping/swiping to align patterns in a split-screen view. Timed for urgency, with 3 
attempts. 
• Why Ideal: Aligns with Dr. Priya Shah’s forensic role; adds scientific authenticity 
without complexity. 
• Involvement Boost: Introduces precision skill; success “upgrades” a merge item (e.g., 
turns partial print into full evidence). 
• Implementation: Sprite overlays with overlap detection; particle effects for matches. 
Reuse merge item assets. 
4. Text Investigation (Inspired by Duskwood and An Elmwood Trail) 
• Description: Simulate Ally’s phone: Scroll through chat logs or emails, tap keywords 
(e.g., “alibi”) to flag inconsistencies or unlock replies. Culminates in a deduction choice. 
• Why Ideal: Fits modern true crime (e.g., digital trails in podcasts); integrates with 
Alex Vega’s hacker ally. 
• Involvement Boost: Feels interactive like real sleuthing; player choices reveal 
branching dialogue. 
• Implementation: UI text fields with highlight scripts; simple parsing for keywords. 
Mobile-native (vertical scroll). 
5. Scene Reconstruction (Inspired by Return of the Obra Dinn and Unheard) 
• Description: Arrange draggable event cards (e.g., “suspect enters,” “shot fired”) into a 
timeline. Play back a simple animation to verify; mismatches show “glitches.” 
• Why Ideal: Echoes procedural accuracy in your narrative bible; ties to crime scene 
merges. 
• Involvement Boost: Builds narrative investment; correct sequences advance the 
podcast recap. 
• Implementation: Unity Timeline for playback; drag-drop UI. Audio cues (e.g., SFX 
from GDD) enhance immersion. 
6. Code Breaker (Inspired by Professor Layton and Mirror of Death) 
• Description: Decrypt a note or safe code by tapping symbols in sequence (e.g., match 
patterns like a simplified Mastermind). 3-5 rounds with hints. 
• Why Ideal: Common in noir (e.g., locked evidence in Havenbay archives); quick 
“unlock” for story progression. 
• Involvement Boost: Adds brain-teasing variety; rewards merge boosters for chained 
play. 
• Implementation: Grid UI with color/symbol feedback; random generation for replay. 
7. Surveillance Spot (Inspired by Judgment and iCOP) 
• Description: In a static or lightly animated scene (e.g., rainy street view), tap/zoom on 
hidden details (e.g., license plate, suspicious figure) within a time limit. 
• Why Ideal: Fits stakeouts in districts like Stonebridge Viaduct; observational like true 
crime reenactments. 
• Involvement Boost: Trains attention to detail; ties to environmental storytelling in 
your GDD. 
• Implementation: Hotspot detection on images; zoom via pinch gestures. Reuse 
setting art. 
These minigames elevate the game to more “detective simulator” vibes, addressing 
“narratively shallow” frustrations from your research. Start prototyping 2-3 (e.g., Lie 
Detection and Forensic Match) in soft launch to test retention impact—aim for +5-10% D7 
via Firebase analytics. If scoped well, they push viability toward 9/10 by adding depth 
without bloating development. 
Possible Stories 
• Immediate jeopardy: Open mid-case, not at breakfast. Ally is already in trouble. 
• Atmosphere: Noir-lite tone: rain, shadows, tension in Havenbay. 
• Puzzle-as-detective work: She pieces a clue together in real time. 
• Emotional undercurrent: Hints of her father’s murder and the Ferryman conspiracy. 
• Cliffhanger close: Ends on an unresolved danger, so readers want more. 
 
A Day in the Life of Ally Quinn 
(~1000 words, short-story format for marketing/character intro) 
Ally Quinn hated the silence of Havenbay at three a.m. Silence meant someone was 
watching. 
She pulled her trench coat tighter, teal fabric darkened by drizzle, and crouched by the 
rusted lock of a warehouse door on Pier 13. Her podcast gear rattled faintly in the satchel at 
her hip — but this wasn’t about recording tonight. This was about survival. 
Inside that warehouse, if the whispers were true, sat a ledger. A black book linking half the 
city council to The Ferryman. Her father had died chasing that same lead. Ally had 
promised herself she’d never be reckless. Tonight she was breaking that promise. 
The padlock crumbled after her third try with the pick. She slipped inside. 
The air was damp, thick with the stench of salt and old oil. Her flashlight skimmed stacks of 
crates, tarps draped like shrouds. Each step echoed too loudly. She forced her breath slow, 
steady. 
On a desk at the far wall: a ledger, its cover marked with a faint water-stain shaped like a 
coin. The Ferryman’s signature. 
Her phone buzzed. A message flashed from Alex Vega: 
“Get out. Now. Not alone in there.” 
Ally spun. 
From the shadows near the crates, a figure stepped forward. Silas Vex, the city’s smoothest 
snake in a vintage suit that smelled of smoke and menace. His smile cut across the dark like 
a knife. 
“Curiosity will drown you, Quinn,” he murmured, voice silk over gravel. “Just like it did your 
father.” 
Ally’s hand went to the satchel, fingers brushing the recorder, but she knew better than to 
reach. Vex thrived on leverage. She needed evidence, not bravado. 
“The ledger,” she said, nodding toward the desk. “That’s why you’re here too, isn’t it? Or are 
you just following me for sport?” 
His laugh was soft, cruel. “Ledger’s bait. Always has been. The real cargo moves through 
people, not pages.” He stepped closer, blue eyes glinting. “But you already know that. Why 
else would you be sniffing around the docks in your father’s shadow?” 
Ally’s pulse quickened. He knew. He always knew too much. 
She edged toward the desk anyway. One hand brushed the cover. Damp paper. Ink bled at 
the edges. A real ledger, or another of Vex’s games? 
From outside, faint footfalls thudded along the pier. More than one. Vex’s smirk widened. 
“You walked yourself into the Ferryman’s tide, Quinn. And tides… they take what they 
want.” 
She grabbed the ledger, slammed the flashlight into his arm, and bolted. 
The back door burst open into the rain. Three men in black coats were already crossing the 
pier. One of them held a coin, flipping it in the streetlight. The Ferryman’s mark. 
Ally ran. Boots pounding slick planks, heart hammering. Behind her, shouts. A gun cocked. 
She dove into the shadows under the viaduct, lungs burning. Neon graffiti glowed faintly — 
Nova Skye’s work, symbols only rebels and detectives understood. Ally traced the pattern 
with her eyes, found the hidden path between the pylons. 
Shots cracked wood where she’d just been. 
She didn’t stop. Didn’t dare. 
At last, she burst into the open near the Rusty Anchor, its crooked neon sign buzzing in the 
storm. Safe ground — for now. Mo Callahan would keep the peace inside. Ally shoved 
through the door, soaked, clutching the ledger. 
The bar smelled of chowder and whiskey, warm light wrapping her like armor. Gerald 
Quinn sat at his usual booth, arms folded, eyes sharp behind round glasses. He didn’t flinch 
at her entrance; he’d expected her. 
“You’ve got yourself a death wish,” he said quietly as she slid in, ledger thudding on the 
table. 
“Maybe,” Ally panted. “But I’ve also got proof.” 
Gerald’s gaze lingered on the book, then on her trembling hands. Outside, sirens wailed 
closer. 
Ally pressed the recorder’s red button. Her voice, low but steady, filled the silence: 
“Listeners, tonight on Echoes of Havenbay… I almost joined my father in the dark. But what 
I found might finally shine a light on who killed him. Stay tuned.” 
The tape whirred. The bar fell silent. And the Ferryman’s men were still out there, closing 
in. 
 
This ~1000-word cut aims to: 
• Hook fast (pier infiltration, ledger, Vex confrontation). 
• Show jeopardy (men in coats, bullets, chase). 
• Foreshadow arc (father’s death, Ferryman). 
• Tease podcast frame (ending with Ally’s narration). 
Podcast-Style Voice Over Script 
(Approx. 2–3 minutes read aloud, ~500–600 words) 
[SFX: rain on wooden planks, distant foghorn, faint echo of footsteps on a pier] 
ALLY (VO, whispering, tense): 
Havenbay never really sleeps. The ocean keeps it awake. But at three in the morning, the 
silence… means someone’s watching. 
[SFX: creak of rusted lock, faint metallic snap] 
ALLY (VO): 
I shouldn’t be here. Pier 13. Abandoned warehouse. The same place my father went twenty 
years ago — and never came back from. He’d been chasing The Ferryman. And now… so am 
I. 
[SFX: door creaks open, echoing footsteps, flashlight click] 
ALLY (VO): 
Inside, the air smells like rust and salt and secrets. And on that desk… a ledger. His mark, 
stamped on the cover like a coin tossed into dark water. 
[SFX: BUZZ of phone, urgent vibration] 
TEXT TONE. 
(Alex Vega’s voice, urgent, faint): Get out. Now. You’re not alone in there. 
[SFX: echoing footsteps approaching, a man’s chuckle in the shadows] 
SILAS VEX (smooth, menacing): 
Curiosity drowns, Quinn. Just like it did your father. 
ALLY (VO, sharp intake of breath): 
Silas Vex. The Ferryman’s right hand. Dressed like a sermon, armed like a sin. 
[SFX: ledger slamming shut, quick footsteps, door bursting open, rain outside] 
ALLY (VO, running): 
I grabbed the ledger and bolted. Out into the storm. And that’s when I saw them. Three men 
in black coats. One flipping a coin in the rain. The Ferryman’s mark. 
[SFX: gun cocking, shouts, running footsteps, gunshots cracking wood] 
ALLY (VO, breathless): 
Bullets split the boards where I’d just been. My father’s ghost screaming in my head: Don’t 
stop. 
[SFX: rushing footsteps under viaduct, spray paint can rattling, neon hum] 
ALLY (VO): 
Neon symbols on the viaduct. Nova Skye’s code — the city’s graffiti oracle. A hidden path. I 
slipped between the pylons, heart hammering, until the storm spat me out at The Rusty 
Anchor. 
[SFX: bar door slamming shut, muffled chatter, jukebox humming low, rain outside 
fades] 
ALLY (VO, relieved but shaky): 
Safe. For now. Mo Callahan poured whiskey with one hand and silence with the other. And 
across the booth, Gerald Quinn waited, steady as stone. 
GERALD (measured, low): 
You’ve got yourself a death wish, Ally. 
ALLY (VO): 
Maybe. But I’ve also got proof. 
[SFX: click of recorder, faint tape whir] 
ALLY (now addressing the listener directly, calm but electric): 
Tonight on Echoes of Havenbay: I walked the same pier that took my father’s life… and 
almost lost mine. But what I found — this ledger — might finally shine a light on The 
Ferryman. 
[SFX: thunder roll, tape hiss, coin flipping faintly in the dark] 
ALLY (VO, final whisper): 
Stay tuned. Because the tide… is rising. 
[MUSIC STINGER: dark, pulsing true-crime theme — fade out] 
 
This version does a few things: 
• Immersion: Drops the listener straight into Ally’s POV with sound cues. 
• Jeopardy: Chase, bullets, Vex confrontation. 
• Character hook: Her father’s death, her reckless courage, her narration style. 
• Cliffhanger: The Ferryman still out there, the ledger just the beginning. 
This script could be recorded with SFX and layered under gameplay footage as a teaser 
trailer or as the in-game intro podcast episode that segues straight into the first 
merge/tutorial puzzle. 
Storyboard: Ally Quinn – Opening Cutscene / Trailer 
(~90–120 seconds runtime) 
 
Scene 1 – Pier 13 
[SFX: rain on planks, distant foghorn, dripping water] 
VO (Ally, whispering): Havenbay never really sleeps. The ocean keeps it awake. But at three 
in the morning, the silence… means someone’s watching. 
Visual: 
• Wide shot of Havenbay docks, fog rolling over water. 
• Camera pushes slowly toward a rusting warehouse with the number “13” barely 
visible. 
• Quick cut: Ally crouched at a padlock, teal trench coat soaked, auburn hair plastered 
against her face. 
 
Scene 2 – Inside the Warehouse 
[SFX: creak of lock, door groan, flashlight click] 
VO (Ally): I shouldn’t be here. My father came here twenty years ago… and never came back. 
He was chasing The Ferryman. And now… so am I. 
Visual: 
• POV shot of flashlight beam cutting through crates and tarps. 
• Camera lingers on a desk. On it: a damp ledger stamped faintly with a coin-shaped 
water stain. 
• Insert shot: Ally’s hand hesitating over the cover. 
 
Scene 3 – The Warning 
[SFX: phone buzz, urgent text tone] 
On-screen text (phone screen): Alex Vega: Get out. Now. You’re not alone in there. 
Visual: 
• Ally’s eyes widen. She spins, camera whip-pans into darkness. 
• From shadow, a figure steps forward — Silas Vex in his immaculate vintage suit. 
Dialogue (Vex, smooth menace): Curiosity drowns, Quinn. Just like it did your father. 
 
Scene 4 – The Chase 
[SFX: footsteps, ledger slamming shut, rain hammering outside] 
VO (Ally, breathless): I grabbed the ledger and bolted. Out into the storm. And that’s when I 
saw them… 
Visual: 
• Ally bursts out into rain, clutching ledger. 
• Three silhouetted men in black coats block the pier. One flips a coin in the lamplight — 
the Ferryman’s mark. 
• Gun cocks. 
[SFX: gunshot cracks wood, echoing shouts] 
Visual: 
• Ally sprints along slick planks, bullets splintering behind her. 
• Camera cuts between frantic close-ups (her feet, her panicked breath) and wide shots 
of men in pursuit. 
 
Scene 5 – Escape through the Viaduct 
[SFX: echo under concrete, neon hum, spray can rattle faintly] 
VO (Ally): Nova Skye’s symbols glowed on the viaduct — graffiti code, a hidden path. I 
followed. 
Visual: 
• Neon graffiti symbols pulse faintly under the bridge, guiding her way. 
• Ally slips between pylons just as more gunshots ricochet. 
 
Scene 6 – The Rusty Anchor 
[SFX: bar door slam, jukebox low, murmurs fade in] 
VO (Ally, shaky relief): The Rusty Anchor. Safe ground… for now. 
Visual: 
• Warm interior glow. Mo Callahan behind the bar, watching with sharp suspicion. 
• Gerald Quinn seated in shadowy booth, eyes on Ally. 
Dialogue (Gerald, calm but cutting): You’ve got yourself a death wish. 
Visual: 
• Ally slams the ledger onto the table. Gerald studies it gravely. 
 
Scene 7 – The Podcast Frame 
[SFX: recorder click, tape hiss] 
VO (Ally, directly to “listener”): 
Tonight on Echoes of Havenbay: I walked the same pier that took my father’s life… and almost 
lost mine. But what I found — this ledger — might finally shine a light on The Ferryman. 
Visual: 
• Slow zoom on Ally’s recorder light glowing red. 
• Outside, storm still raging. 
• Cut to close-up: a coin flipping in a Ferryman’s hand, catching streetlight. 
 
Scene 8 – Cliffhanger 
[SFX: thunder roll, faint coin flip repeating] 
VO (Ally, final whisper): Stay tuned. Because the tide… is rising. 
Visual: 
• Fade to black. 
• Title card: “Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge” 
• Subtitle: Coming soon / Play the mystery. Piece by piece. 
[MUSIC STINGER: dark, pulsing true-crime theme — fade out] 
Branching Cutscene → Merge Gameplay Tutorial with MidJourney Prompts 
 
Scene 1 – Pier 13 (Cold Open) 
Integration: Player sees Ally pick the lock. Then the game pauses → first merge tutorial: 
merge two “Rusty Lockpick” items → creates “Broken Padlock” → door opens. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
cinematic night scene of a foggy coastal pier, wet wooden planks reflecting 
neon, lone woman in teal trench coat crouching at a rusted warehouse lock, 
rain drizzling, noir atmosphere, tense and moody lighting, volumetric fog, 
film still, 4k, hyper-detailed 
Notes: First playable merge. Tutorial framed as detective work. 
 
Scene 2 – Inside Warehouse (The Ledger) 
Integration: Ally discovers ledger on the desk. Player merges scraps of “Water-Stained 
Paper” to reconstruct the Ledger Page (mini merge tree). This teaches merging narrative 
artifacts. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
dark abandoned warehouse interior, flashlight beam cutting through stacked 
crates and tarps, old desk with a damp ledger marked by a faint coin-shaped 
stain, cinematic noir style, dust motes in air, moody contrast, atmospheric 
realism 
Notes: Establishes evidence-as-merge loop. 
 
Scene 3 – Warning & Vex Reveal 
Integration: Player can’t act — scripted cutscene. Phone buzzes → text overlay from Alex 
Vega. Then Silas Vex emerges. Player merges “Phone Signal Scraps” → “Decoded Warning”. 
Quick tutorial: how merge = new info. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
shadowy figure in a vintage tailored suit emerging from darkness inside an 
old warehouse, confident sinister smirk, cinematic lighting, noir thriller 
aesthetic, rain dripping through broken windows, tense composition, 4k film 
still 
Notes: First villain reveal. Merge tied to communication/information. 
 
Scene 4 – The Chase (Gunfire on the Pier) 
Integration: Gameplay = tap-to-dodge quicktime, then merge “Splintered Wood” + 
“Dropped Bullet Casing” → “Ballistics Clue”. Tutorial shows evidence can be merged later 
into case files. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
woman sprinting along rain-slick wooden pier at night, chased by three men in 
long black coats, one flipping a silver coin, gunfire splintering planks, 
dramatic rain, neon streetlight reflections, cinematic wide shot, tense noir 
thriller atmosphere 
Notes: Keeps adrenaline high, then pivots back to puzzle mechanics. 
 
Scene 5 – Viaduct & Nova’s Symbols 
Integration: Player merges “Graffiti Markings” to unlock the hidden passage. This 
introduces environment as interactive evidence. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
concrete viaduct at night glowing with neon graffiti symbols, hidden path 
between pylons, wet ground reflecting light, stylized urban noir, cinematic 
wide shot, vibrant against dark stormy backdrop 
Notes: First hint of Havenbay’s wider cast (Nova Skye). 
 
Scene 6 – The Rusty Anchor (Safe Haven) 
Integration: Transition into narrative safe hub. Player merges “Bar Receipts” or “Old Menu 
Pages” → “Clue Board Update”. This seeds the idea that everyday items feed Ally’s 
investigation. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
cozy old harbor bar interior at night, warm golden light contrasting storm 
outside, wooden beams, neon Rusty Anchor sign glowing through rain-streaked 
window, woman in teal trench coat soaked entering with ledger, bartender 
watching sharply, cinematic, atmospheric noir 
Notes: Contrast: danger → warmth. Anchor is home base/hub. 
 
Scene 7 – The Podcast Frame 
Integration: Ally records her findings. Player merges “Tape Reels” → “Podcast Episode 
Draft”. Mechanic shows how merges move story forward. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
close-up of a vintage portable recorder glowing red record light, woman’s 
hand pressing button, dark noir bar interior in background, moody cinematic 
lighting, tape hiss atmosphere, 4k film still 
Notes: Bridges gameplay with Ally’s podcast identity. 
 
Scene 8 – Cliffhanger: The Ferryman’s Mark 
Integration: Final scripted cutscene. Player cannot merge here — sets up larger meta tree 
(“Who is The Ferryman?”). Cliffhanger locks players in. 
MidJourney Prompt: 
close-up of a silver coin flipping in slow motion under a streetlight in 
heavy rain, Ferryman’s symbol engraved, shadowy hand catching it, cinematic 
noir, high contrast, ominous mood, hyper-detailed 4k 
Notes: End of tutorial loop. Marketing trailer ends here too. 
Ally Quinn Brainstorming 
Spitballing game content that is not yet confirmed. 
Warning: Nothing in this section Brainstorming section is confirm and therefore should not 
be currently considered regarding the project. 
Possible Marketing Ideas 
Possible Success Viability Improvements 
Actionable Steps to Boost Viability 
Implement these in phases: pre-soft launch (for 9/10 foundation), soft launch (testing), and 
global launch (scaling to 10/10). Prioritize based on your resources. 
1. Enhance Differentiation with Hybrid Innovation (Boost: +0.5 to 1 Point) 
– Why? The merge market is evolving toward strategy, personalization, and 
hybrids in 2025, but pure merges risk feeling repetitive. True crime adds grit, 
but integrate it deeper to stand out like Duskwood’s interactive mysteries. 
– How: 
• Add procedural elements: Randomized case branches or user-submitted 
“clues” via community (e.g., integrate player theories into live ops 
episodes). 
• Expand podcast tie-in: Release real-world teaser episodes on 
Spotify/Apple Podcasts pre-launch, blurring game and media for viral 
buzz (similar to how Phantom Crime Mystery built hype in 2025). 
• Test hybrid mechanics: Mini-games for interrogations (e.g., dialogue 
puzzles) or AR clue scanning for mobile immersion. 
– Impact: Pushes to 9/10 by creating “must-play” uniqueness; 10/10 if it sparks 
trends (e.g., true crime merges become a subgenre). 
2. Optimize Monetization for 2025 Trends (Boost: +0.5 Point) 
– Why? Merge games monetize well via IAP (e.g., boosters, ad removal) and ads, 
with revenue growing steadily. Indie successes like those from Deca Games 
show live ops double DAU. 
– How: 
• Refine energy system: Offer “premium passes” for unlimited play during 
events, or personalized bundles based on player progress (e.g., clue 
packs for story fans). 
• Incorporate seasonal events: True crime-themed holidays (e.g., 
“Halloween Unsolved Cases”) with limited-time merges, boosting 
ARPDAU to $0.40+ as targeted. 
• A/B test via Firebase: Experiment with ad frequency and IAP pricing; 
aim for 25% “dolphin” conversion without aggressive walls. 
– Impact: Stabilizes revenue for 9/10; scales to 10/10 with ROAS >100% by day 
90, per your KPIs. 
3. Build a Pre-Launch Community and Marketing Machine (Boost: +1 Point) 
– Why? Indies succeed via early hype and organic growth; 62% of players seek 
narrative-driven games, and true crime fans are highly engaged on socials. 
– How: 
• Launch a Discord/Reddit community early: Share devlogs, polls (e.g., 
“Who killed Thomas?”), and beta access to build superfans (echoing your 
GDD’s plan). 
• Influencer collabs: Partner with true crime podcasters (10-50k 
listeners) and TikTok crimefluencers for sponsored episodes, as 
suggested; target CPI <$2.50 via Meta/TikTok polls. 
• Cross-promo: Tie into existing true crime apps (e.g., affiliate with Crime 
Junkie listeners) or merge communities (e.g., Reddit r/mergegames). 
• Website/Trailer: Optimize with ASO keywords like “true crime merge 
detective”; create a viral trailer blending gameplay and podcast audio. 
– Impact: Drives D1 retention >40% for 9/10; viral word-of-mouth (like Flappy 
Bird’s 50k/day surge) could hit 10/10. 
4. Iterate Aggressively via Soft Launch and Data (Boost: +0.5 to 1 Point) 
– Why? Puzzle revenue grew 48.88% YoY in 2024-2025, but indies fail without 
testing; successes like Realm of the Mad God doubled DAU post-iteration. 
– How: 
• Extend soft launch: 8-12 weeks in test markets; use Unity 
Analytics/Firebase to tweak narrative pacing, energy regen, and ad 
placements based on drop-off data. 
• Player feedback loops: Post-launch surveys (as in your ToDo) and A/B 
tests for choices/branching to ensure “time-well-spent” feel. 
• Accessibility/Polish: Add voice mode (like Grok 3), color-blind options, 
and offline progress to broaden appeal. 
– Impact: Reduces risks for 9/10; data-proven hooks (e.g., >12% D7 retention) 
secure 10/10 funding/partnerships. 
5. Plan for Long-Term Sustainability and Expansion (Boost: +0.5 Point) 
– Why? Indies thrive on post-launch content; merge games need “room for more” 
in 2025. 
– How: 
• Roadmap “Season 2”: Pre-plan DLC cases or user-generated mysteries 
for ongoing revenue. 
• Budget buffer: Allocate 10-20% more for UA/live ops, targeting $0.20-
0.40 ARPDAU scaling. 
• Partnerships: Seek indie publishers (e.g., Deca Games) or xAI API for AI-
generated clues to add novelty. 
– Impact: Ensures longevity for 9/10; evergreen appeal (like Ace Attorney ports) 
hits 10/10. 
Projected Outcomes 
• To 9/10: Achieve with steps 1-3 + soft launch tweaks; expect stable revenue in a 
growing market (puzzle projected >$16bn globally by 2029, building on 2022 
baselines). 
• To 10/10: All steps + viral element (e.g., podcast crossover); monitor for breakout like 
Merge-2 titles hitting $60M monthly. Track against KPIs; if retention hits >5% D30, 
you’re golden. 
Start with community building—it’s low-cost and high-ROI for indies. If executed, this 
could make Ally Quinn a 2025 standout. 
Possible Minigames 
Mini-games are a perfect spice to break merge fatigue and deepen the “I’m solving a case” 
fantasy. The trick is to design ones that feel like investigation tasks—so they blend 
seamlessly with the detective theme—while also providing snackable variety. Here are 
some strong contenders, all thematic to Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge: 
 
1. Crime Scene Sweep (Hidden Object Variant) 
• Setup: A cluttered scene (Ally’s office, a dock warehouse, a suspect’s kitchen). 
• Play: Player taps to find evidence items (bloody glove, receipt, lipstick smudge) under 
a short timer. 
• Tie-In: Feels like a detective combing through a scene. Rewards: unique merge items 
or clue fragments. 
2. Fingerprint Match (Pattern Puzzle) 
• Setup: A partial fingerprint (or shoeprint, tyre tread) needs aligning with samples. 
• Play: Rotate, zoom, and align fragments until a match “locks.” 
• Tie-In: Classic forensics, gives tactile satisfaction of solving a puzzle. 
3. Interrogation Mini-Game (Dialogue Timing) 
• Setup: Suspect dodges questions; the player has to “press” at the right moment. 
• Play: Quick-time prompts or “choose the right statement” to break contradictions. 
• Tie-In: Makes players feel like an active investigator, not just passively merging. 
4. Audio Clue Decode (Spectrogram Puzzle) 
• Setup: A garbled voicemail or tape recording. 
• Play: Player adjusts sliders to clean noise or tap out anomalies in a waveform. 
• Tie-In: Mirrors true-crime podcast tech, rewarding with clear intel or new leads. 
5. Forensic Lab Match-3 Burst 
• Setup: DNA strands, chemical reagents, or fibres on a simple 6×6 grid. 
• Play: Quick 60-second burst match-3 to “run the analysis.” 
• Tie-In: Adds fast-paced variety while still framed as lab work. 
6. Photo Line-Up (Spot-the-Difference) 
• Setup: Multiple suspect photos, CCTV stills, or sketches. 
• Play: Find inconsistencies (scar, earring, tattoo) within a time limit. 
• Tie-In: Directly echoes police procedure, easy to replay. 
7. Timeline Builder (Logic Puzzle) 
• Setup: Events of the night are scrambled (texts, receipts, witness sightings). 
• Play: Player drags and drops to order events into a plausible sequence. 
• Tie-In: Feels investigative, strengthens narrative immersion, builds replay value. 
8. Safe Cracking (Code Puzzle) 
• Setup: A locked safe or phone. 
• Play: Use haptic feedback or visual cues (lights, vibrations) to align tumblers or crack 
codes. 
• Tie-In: Adds drama, feels tactile, big reveal payoff when opened. 
9. Surveillance Watch (Pattern Recognition) 
• Setup: Grainy video of a street corner or café. 
• Play: Player must tap whenever the suspect enters or performs a suspicious action. 
• Tie-In: Simulates detective stakeouts, adds tension and atmosphere. 
10. Voice Stress Analysis (Rhythm or Pitch Puzzle) 
• Setup: Interrogation recording. 
• Play: Player tracks stress peaks on waveform; tap in rhythm to reveal lies. 
• Tie-In: Nods to forensic psychology, keeps true crime fans hooked. 
 
Why these work: 
• Theme integrity: Each feels like “detective work,” not just a generic casual game 
bolted on. 
• Snack length: They can be wrapped in 30–90 seconds, ideal for mobile bursts. 
• Reward loop: Output is case progress (clues, suspects, episode unlocks), not arbitrary 
points. 
• Tone balance: They maintain noir-lite intrigue without leaning camp or grim. 
 
A good strategy is to treat them as rotating case interludes—triggered at pivotal story 
beats or as optional side tasks. That way, they deepen immersion and pacing rather than 
bloat the core merge loop. 
Would you like me to sketch a roadmap of which mini-games fit best into Season 1’s 
narrative arc (e.g., Crime Scene Sweep in Episode 1, Interrogation in Episode 2, Audio 
Decode in Episode 3), so they feel baked into the story rather than sprinkled randomly? 
Cold Open 
Opening 
 
Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge 
The Ultimate First 5 Minutes (Updated FTUE Spec) 
Case 1, Scene 1: “The Kestrel Point Disappearance” 
 
Core Philosophy 
The player isn’t learning a puzzle game — they are conducting an investigation. 
Every input is diegetic (in-world). The tutorial is disguised as detective work. 
 
High-Level Goals 
• Merge → Tool → Evidence → Story loop demonstrated. 
• Hook through podcast narration, photo analysis, agency, and variety. 
• Deliver a cliffhanger that ties the conspiracy to Ally’s personal life. 
• Session length: ~5 minutes. 
 
Golden Path Timeline 
00:00–00:15 — Cold Open (Podcast → Photo Reveal) 
• Audio (VO): Ally narrates in podcast tone: 
“October 12th, 11:47 PM. Lena Kovac sends a text to her brother: ‘I think I’m being 
followed.’ Then… nothing. This is the last known trace of her. Until now.” 
• Visual: Rain-streaked crime scene photo of Lena’s phone, with evidence tag overlay. 
• Interaction: Photo pulses; player taps it. 
• Transition: Photo slides onto Ally’s desk (merge board). 
• Why: Establishes podcast framing, immerses in casework, first tap feels investigative. 
 
00:15–01:30 — Building the Tools (Scanner + Laptop) 
• Ally VO: “We’ll need to digitise this photo before we can analyse it. That means a scanner 
and a laptop. Let’s set them up.” 
• Scanner (4-tier merge chain): 
– Parts → Frame → Prototype → Photo Scanner. 
• Laptop (3-tier merge chain): 
– Loaner Case → Prototype → Forensic Laptop. 
• Player merges items step by step. 
• Ally VO beats: “Scanner’s ready.” / “Perfect — laptop online.” 
• Why: Teaches merge ladders (scanner longer, laptop shorter), builds player–Ally 
rapport. 
 
01:30–02:40 — Analysing the Photo 
• Player drags Scanner → Photo → Digital Scan. 
• Player drags Laptop → Scan → Enhanced Frame. 
• Result: Camera ID tag visible: KP-CAM-12. 
• Ally VO: “There — municipal camera ID. If we can pull that feed, we’ll know what 
happened next.” 
• Why: Logical, believable investigation step. 
 
02:40–03:30 — Surveillance Minigame 
• Objective: “Review KP-CAM-12 Surveillance Footage.” 
• Player scrubs CCTV, taps when Lena drops her phone. 
• Brilliance moment: Early tap on suspicious van/figure → Ally praise. 
• Reward: Partial Plate clue. 
• VO: “Sharp eye — I almost missed that.” 
• Why: Variety, winnable, moment of player cleverness. 
 
03:30–04:30 — Database Lookup (Merge + Economy Beat) 
• Player merges Registry Forms → DMV Query Tool. 
• Query Tool + Partial Plate → Vehicle Hit. 
• Progress bar stalls mid-way → Rush Lookup (Free) prompt. 
• Player taps. 
• Reward: Vehicle record flagged to Conrad Marlow (suspect). 
• VO: “Conrad Marlow. Lena’s ex-co-worker. That ties him in.” 
• Why: Teaches economy/skip mechanic without pressure, delivers first suspect. 
 
04:30–05:00 — Narrative Twist & Transition 
• Caseboard zooms on Marlow record → hidden tag: CITY HALL / QUINN CASE #001. 
• VO (Ally, shaken): “That’s impossible… Why is my father’s case file linked here?” 
• Visual: Map pans → City Hall pin drops. 
• Audio: Podcast sting, heartbeat bass. 
• Haptics: Double vibration. 
• CTA: “Continue to Scene 2: City Hall” (First-Time Free Pass). 
• Outro VO: “What was in that file? And why was it buried? Next time on Echoes of 
Havenbay…” 
• Why: Delivers a conspiracy hook + Ally’s personal stakes, ends with momentum. 
 
Design Pillars 
• Sensory Layering: podcast VO, rain ambience, merge pops, database hum, heartbeat 
bass. 
• Choice & Agency: brilliance moment, Ally thanks/praises player, later dialogue 
echoes choices. 
• Economy Integration: first “Rush Lookup” offered free. 
• Accessibility: 14pt+ UI text, captions ON, color-safe, reduce-motion toggle. 
 
Telemetry Targets 
• ftue_start 
• cold_open_seen 
• photo_tapped 
• scanner_chain_complete 
• laptop_chain_complete 
• photo_scanned 
• enhanced_frame_created 
• minigame_start / minigame_success / brilliance_detected 
• dmv_query_initiated / rush_lookup_used / suspect_unlocked=marlow 
• twist_seen 
• ftue_complete 
• cta_continue_clicked 
KPIs: 
• First merge < 30s. 
• Scanner/laptop build < 90s. 
• Suspect reveal < 4m. 
• Twist revealed < 4:45. 
• FTUE completion rate > 75%. 
 
Content Needed 
• Evidence: Crime Scene Photo, Digital Scan, Enhanced Frame. 
• Scanner chain: Parts → Frame → Prototype → Scanner. 
• Laptop chain: Loaner Case → Prototype → Forensic Laptop. 
• Registry chain: Forms → DMV Query Tool → Vehicle Hit. 
• Caseboard Tiles: Marlow portrait, KP-CAM-12 objective, City Hall pin. 
• Minigame: CCTV scrub timeline, Lena dropping phone, shadow van. 
• Audio: 6 Ally VO clips + podcast outro, 1 sting, 2 ambience loops, merge pops, haptics. 
 
Why This Works 
• Identity: Player feels like an investigator from second one. 
• Immersion: Podcast framing + believable evidence analysis. 
• Agency: Builds tools, gets thanked, rewarded for brilliance. 
• Narrative Stakes: Conspiracy links to Ally’s father within 5 minutes. 
• Momentum: Ends on cliffhanger with clear CTA into Scene 2. 
 
Prototype 
ChatGPT Staff 
Ally Quinn Agent Squad 
 
🎬 Creative & Narrative 
Shaun the Showrunner 
Role: Integrator & decision log keeper. 
Mission: Keep story, design, tech, art, and schedule aligned. 
Scope: Cross-check outputs, resolve conflicts, maintain single source of truth. 
Default deliverables: Alignment notes, risk/assumption log, decision summaries. 
Example prompts: 
• “Shaun, check if Episode 1’s story beats, merge tree pacing, and UI readability align.” 
• “Shaun, list red flags in this sprint backlog.” 
• “Shaun, summarise changes made since last sprint.” 
Archie the Archivist 
Role: Narrative canon keeper. 
Mission: Maintain Ally Quinn’s backstory, Havenbay world bible, episodic scripts. 
Scope: Story beats, character arcs, VO pages, continuity notes. 
Default deliverables: Scene maps, dialogue, podcast scripts, continuity risks. 
Example prompts: 
• “Archie, draft Episode 1 in 5 scenes with a SIM-card clue and cliffhanger.” 
• “Archie, write Ally’s podcast transcript for Episode 2.” 
• “Archie, highlight continuity risks between Episodes 1 and 2.” 
Nico the Narrative Editor 
Role: Dialogue & pacing polisher. 
Mission: Refine text into a noir-lite, player-readable style. 
Scope: Dialogue tightening, VO polish, mood consistency. 
Default deliverables: Edited scripts, pacing notes, style adjustments. 
Example prompts: 
• “Nico, polish this dialogue for clarity while keeping noir tone.” 
• “Nico, adjust Ally’s narration to be tighter and more suspenseful.” 
• “Nico, check VO script pacing for Episode 1.” 
 
🛠️ Technical & Build 
Mike the Mechanic 
Role: Systems designer. 
Mission: Translate story beats into merge trees, minigames, rewards, economy. 
Scope: Merge chains, minigame briefs, drop tables, economy tuning. 
Default deliverables: Merge blueprints, JSON schema examples, minigame outlines. 
Example prompts: 
• “Mike, design a 5-tier Phone Evidence chain with a Text-Search minigame.” 
• “Mike, sketch drop rates and rewards for Episode 1’s merge loop.” 
• “Mike, output a JSON example for the SIM-card evidence chain.” 
Archie the Architect 
Role: Technical strategist. 
Mission: Guard clean architecture (ports/adapters, reuse vs glue code). 
Scope: Module boundaries, dependency rules, test strategy. 
Default deliverables: Architecture diagrams, code skeletons, DI notes. 
Example prompts: 
• “Archie, show how to structure Unity project with 70% reusable code.” 
• “Archie, propose Ports & Adapters layout for merge evaluator.” 
• “Archie, suggest test strategy for domain vs Unity adapters.” 
 
🎨 Art, Audio & UX 
Izzy the Illustrator 
Role: Visual identity & UI/UX support. 
Mission: Ensure noir look is consistent and mobile-readable. 
Scope: Prompt design, UI wireframes, icon readability, palette. 
Default deliverables: Prompt packs, UI notes, style guides. 
Example prompts: 
• “Izzy, create 5 MidJourney prompts for the SIM-forensics screen.” 
• “Izzy, suggest font pairings for noir readability on mobile.” 
• “Izzy, list icon assets needed for the Phone Evidence tree.” 
Sam the Sound Designer 
Role: Audio direction. 
Mission: Build noir-authentic but lightweight audio identity. 
Scope: SFX, music loops, VO layering, mobile performance. 
Default deliverables: Sound design notes, layering guides, asset lists. 
Example prompts: 
• “Sam, design ambience for rain-soaked Havenbay docks.” 
• “Sam, suggest loopable noir piano track for menus.” 
• “Sam, list essential SFX for merge interactions.” 
 
📈 Marketing & Growth 
Max the Marketer 
Role: UA & store positioning. 
Mission: Make Danielle (player persona) click install. 
Scope: Store copy, ASO keywords, ad concepts, KPI framing. 
Default deliverables: App Store/Play drafts, campaign ideas, keyword sets. 
Example prompts: 
• “Max, draft an App Store description highlighting true crime + merge.” 
• “Max, propose 3 ad angles for Episode 1 launch.” 
• “Max, list ASO keywords for merge + mystery.” 
Capri the Community Builder 
Role: Player engagement & retention. 
Mission: Build community around Ally Quinn, podcasts, in-game events. 
Scope: Discord events, pre-reg rewards, podcast tie-ins. 
Default deliverables: Event outlines, engagement plans, reward ladders. 
Example prompts: 
• “Capri, plan a Discord event tied to Episode 1.” 
• “Capri, suggest pre-reg rewards fitting the true crime theme.” 
• “Capri, design a tie-in between Ally’s podcast and in-game clues.” 
 
📚 Knowledge & Ops 
Ruby the Researcher 
Role: Market & academic scout. 
Mission: Surface insights, comps, and data. 
Scope: Market research, academic studies, citations, trend analysis. 
Default deliverables: Research summaries, competitor comparisons, annotated citations. 
Example prompts: 
• “Ruby, compare our merge loop to Gossip Harbor’s.” 
• “Ruby, find research on narrative retention in puzzle games.” 
• “Ruby, summarise competitor monetisation strategies.” 
 
🗂️ Production, QA & External 
Pete the Production Manager 
Role: Sprint planner. 
Mission: Turn ideas into achievable sprints. 
Scope: Jira CSVs, RAID logs, milestone roadmaps. 
Default deliverables: Backlog files, AC notes, milestone charts. 
Example prompts: 
• “Pete, create a 2-week sprint for Episode 1 vertical slice.” 
• “Pete, produce Jira CSV for merge tree tasks.” 
• “Pete, draft RAID log for Episode 1 prototype.” 
Beef the Bodyguard 
Role: QA & telemetry enforcer. 
Mission: Guard fun and stability. 
Scope: Test scripts, bug taxonomy, analytics event maps. 
Default deliverables: Test checklists, funnels, KPI thresholds. 
Example prompts: 
• “Beef, define analytics events for Episode 1 merge loop.” 
• “Beef, write test checklist for SIM-card merge chain.” 
• “Beef, propose KPI gates for vertical slice retention.” 
Harry the Hype Man 
Role: Pre-launch marketing & PR. 
Mission: Build anticipation for launch. 
Scope: Pre-reg pages, PR drafts, trailer beats, campaign briefs. 
Default deliverables: Store creative briefs, teaser scripts, press kits. 
Example prompts: 
• “Harry, draft a coming soon page for Episode 1.” 
• “Harry, write a teaser press release.” 
• “Harry, outline trailer beats for App Store feature slot.” 
Anna the Auditor 
Role: Compliance & accessibility. 
Mission: Prevent last-minute blockers. 
Scope: Accessibility, ratings, privacy, localisation readiness. 
Default deliverables: Checklists, compliance diffs, issue lists. 
Example prompts: 
• “Anna, run accessibility checklist for Episode 1 UI.” 
• “Anna, flag rating risks for App Store/Play.” 
• “Anna, suggest localisation prep steps.” 
Brock the Broker 
Role: Funding & partnerships. 
Mission: Keep the lights on. 
Scope: Budgets, pitch decks, grant calendars. 
Default deliverables: One-pagers, XLSX budget, milestone roadmap. 
Example prompts: 
• “Brock, draft a one-pager pitch for Episode 1 vertical slice.” 
• “Brock, outline 2-month budget for prototype.” 
• “Brock, list relevant Australian grant deadlines.” 
 
Now you’ve got all 16 agents with their friendly names, roles, deliverables, and starter 
prompts. 
Would you like me to also package this into a formatted “Agent Handbook” .docx (each 
agent on its own page with a header, short brief, and example prompts) so you’ve got a 
polished reference document alongside your GDD? 
Merge items 
Absolutely—multi-type generators are great for pacing and variety. Here are 10 concepts 
that each produce items from multiple families (with simple tier beats so they feel better 
as they level). I’ve bolded the distinct output pools per generator. 
 
1) Squad-Car Trunk 
Outputs: Scene Tools (cones, flares, tape), Power (batteries, power banks), Logistics 
(first-aid packs, flashlight, maps). 
• T1–3: Tools only, slow. 
• T4–7: +Power pool; occasional 2-drop (Tool+Power). 
• T8–10: +Logistics; small chance to drop one from each pool. 
2) Corner Diner (Stakeout Vendor) 
Outputs: Snacks (coffee → donut → meal), Receipts/Notes (scribbled tip, time-stamped 
receipt), Disposable Props (napkins, stirrers) used in merges. 
• T1–3: Snacks. 
• T4–7: +Receipts (clue items). 
• T8–10: +Props; rare “combo tray” (snack + receipt). 
3) Community CCTV Hub 
Outputs: Hardware (camera module, mic, SD card), Media (footage clips), Navigation 
(location pins). 
• T1–3: Hardware. 
• T4–7: +Media. 
• T8–10: +Navigation; chance “compiled clip” (counts as higher-tier media). 
4) Evidence Intake Counter 
Outputs: Packaging (bags, tags, seals), Tracking (barcode stickers), Paperwork (cover 
sheet, chain-of-custody form). 
• T1–3: Packaging. 
• T4–7: +Tracking. 
• T8–10: +Paperwork; occasional “pre-logged packet” (multi-merge shortcut). 
5) Pop-Up Lab Cart 
Outputs: Chem Reagents (A/B, test strips), Sampling (swabs, slides, vials), Reports (lab 
stamp, summary page). 
• T1–3: Reagents. 
• T4–7: +Sampling. 
• T8–10: +Reports; small chance to emit “verified sample” (counts as 2 sampling 
merges). 
6) Informant Hotline 
Outputs: Tips (anonymous note, transcript snippet), Artifacts (polaroid, matchbook), 
Comms (burner parts, SIM). 
• T1–3: Tips. 
• T4–7: +Artifacts. 
• T8–10: +Comms; occasional “credible lead token” that upgrades a tip. 
7) Pawn-Shop Counter 
Outputs: Street Tech (cheap phone, charger), Personal Effects (watch, charm, wallet 
photo), Paper Trail (pawn receipt, ticket stub). 
• T1–3: Street Tech. 
• T4–7: +Personal Effects. 
• T8–10: +Paper Trail; rare “linked set” (effect + receipt pair). 
8) Hardware Run Locker 
Outputs: Fix-Its (duct tape, zip ties), Power/Light (batteries, flashlight bulb), Access 
(basic padlock, key blank). 
• T1–3: Fix-Its. 
• T4–7: +Power/Light. 
• T8–10: +Access; chance to drop “kit bundle” (random 2 from different pools). 
9) Records Kiosk 
Outputs: Blank Forms, Stamps/Seals, Folders/Dividers (organizers). 
• T1–3: Forms. 
• T4–7: +Stamps/Seals. 
• T8–10: +Folders; rare “pre-assembled file” (Form+Seal+Folder). 
10) Digital Helpdesk 
Outputs: Key Material (password hints, token), Storage (USB, SD), Evidence Exports 
(screenshots, chat logs). 
• T1–3: Key Material. 
• T4–7: +Storage. 
• T8–10: +Exports; low chance “complete dump shard.” 
Concept Critique and feedback from 3rd parties 
An Expert-Level Analysis and Critical Feedback on the Business Plan for Ally Quinn: True 
Crime Merge 
  
  
Executive Summary: The Viability Assessment 
The business plan for Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge presents a compelling and well-
conceived project that innovates on the popular merge puzzle genre by injecting a mature, 
narrative-driven true-crime theme. The vision is clear, the target audience is exceptionally 
well-researched, and the core gameplay loop appears fundamentally sound. However, the 
plan’s ambitious scope—particularly in the areas of content production and marketing—is 
in direct conflict with its stated solo-developer execution model, creating a central tension 
that poses a significant risk to the project’s success and long-term sustainability. 
The overall viability of the concept is exceptionally strong, earning a score of 8 out of 10. 
The project’s core idea, market fit, and design philosophy are its greatest strengths. The 
primary weaknesses are tactical and operational, not foundational, and can be mitigated 
with a revised production and marketing strategy. 
The top-level recommendations for strengthening the business plan and de-risking the 
project include: 
1. Re-Scope the Initial Release: Adopt a vertical-slice or “Season 1, Episode 1” 
Minimum Viable Product (MVP) approach to mitigate development risk and enable a 
realistic, data-driven soft launch.1 
2. Rationalize the Marketing Plan: Prioritize low-cost, high-ROI community-building 
and organic content to validate the concept’s appeal before committing a substantial 
budget to paid user acquisition (UA).3 
3. Enhance the Monetization Model: Introduce a deeper, long-term monetization 
system, such as a season pass or high-value cosmetic packs, to complement the player-
friendly IAP and ad model and address the needs of high-spending users.3 
The Core Proposition & Market Assessment 
The game’s core proposition is a high-reward strategy that directly targets a clear market 
gap. The plan correctly identifies its unique selling points (USPs) as a fresh spin on the 
merge genre, blending addictive puzzle mechanics with binge-worthy true-crime 
storytelling.3 The gameplay is tied directly to solving cases, featuring an episodic format 
and a strong female lead within a moody, Southern coastal setting.3 The fusion of these 
elements creates a novel value proposition that is well-differentiated from its competitors. 
The target audience analysis is a major strength of the plan. The Danielle H. persona is 
exceptionally well-defined and serves as a foundational blueprint for design. The profile 
goes beyond basic demographics to include her motivations, frustrations, and media habits, 
such as her desire to “feel like she’s part of a true-crime investigation” and her dislike of 
games that are narratively shallow or too grindy.3 This level of detail is critical for guiding 
creative decisions and messaging.3 The document validates this persona against industry 
data, confirming that the core demographic for merge games is predominantly female, aged 
18–50, and that the true-crime podcast audience is also overwhelmingly female and highly 
engaged.3 
The game’s positioning in the competitive landscape is a smart move. It correctly identifies 
a niche for a game that offers the puzzle satisfaction of the merge genre but with a more 
mature, grittier narrative tone. The plan accurately notes that a segment of the audience 
finds traditional “cozy merge” games to be shallow or repetitive and is looking for themes 
with more grit and stakes.3 
This persona is not merely a description of a user; it functions as a series of actionable 
design goals. The document explicitly outlines Danielle’s “Ideal experience,” which includes 
“zero slog” from the first session, a game loop that feels like “sleuthing, not housekeeping,” 
and a monetization system that “respects her time”.3 These are not just aspirations; they 
are testable hypotheses. If the final game fails to meet any of these specific points, it will 
directly undermine its core appeal to its intended audience. The document’s observation 
that Danielle would feel “betrayed” by aggressive monetization underscores the crucial role 
of trust. This means the game’s success is intrinsically linked to its ability to deliver on the 
promises made to this persona, making Danielle the project’s central stakeholder. 
The core proposition relies on a nuanced blend of “cozy” (the repetitive, calming action of 
merge gameplay) and “gritty” (the serious themes of murder, corruption, and conspiracy). 
The plan states the tone is “investigative, not brutal” and focuses on “intellectual intrigue, 
not bloodstains”.3 This is a delicate balance. A player who expects the casual, low-stakes 
vibe of 
Merge Mansion may be put off by the serious narrative, while a hardcore true-crime fan 
may find the puzzle mechanics too light or a mismatch for the tone. The casual nature of the 
merge puzzle could potentially trivialize the serious nature of the subject matter. To bridge 
this gap and prevent a jarring player experience, the art, music, and writing must maintain 
a consistent “noir-lite” aesthetic throughout, ensuring the style matches the substance.3 
The following table visually maps the direct connection between audience pain points and 
the game’s design solutions, providing a clear summary of why the project’s core design 
choices are strategically sound. 
Table 1: Target Audience vs. Game Design Alignment 
Danielle H. Persona Frustrations & Needs 
Corresponding Game Design Solutions 
Supporting Research Data 
Hates being hard-gated by energy systems that stall story progress for days. 
Energy allows for a solid 20–30 minutes per session, with ad-based or optional IAP 
extensions. 
Average playtime per session is 15–25 minutes.3 
Finds most merge games “too grindy” or narratively shallow. 
Merges are tied directly to solving cases; they feel like “sleuthing, not housekeeping.” 
The demand for narrative is a key trend; 62% of mobile gamers value a good story.3 
Wants a game that fits 20–30 minute sessions without punishing downtime. 
The game is designed for short, frequent sessions during breaks, commutes, or in the 
evening. 
Player sessions typically last 15–25 minutes.3 
Wants storytelling that is more mature than the “cozy merge” genre. 
The game targets true crime fans and podcast binge-watchers, with a tone of intellectual 
intrigue, not gore. 
True crime podcast audience is overwhelmingly female and highly educated.3 
Prefers free-to-play entertainment but is willing to pay if she feels respected. 
A generous free-to-play loop is offered, with monetization focused on ad-based rewards 
and convenience IAPs. 
Players are sensitive to aggressive paywalls; a significant portion are “dolphins” who make 
small purchases if they feel respected.3 
Product & Design Critique 
The proposed gameplay loop of “Play-Get-Upgrade-Repeat” is a standard and effective 
design for free-to-play mobile games. Its application to a narrative context is well-
conceived, as it focuses on merging items, getting rewards (clues), completing objectives, 
and then repeating with a new challenge.3 This cycle is designed to be “fast and 
repeatable,” generating a continuous sense of progression that encourages habitual play.3 
The plan successfully ties the core loop to the narrative by ensuring that merges produce 
“clue items or tools” that are required to advance the story.3 The “Golden Rule” of 
providing narrative feedback after every 3–5 significant merges is crucial for maintaining 
player investment and preventing the gameplay from feeling “narratively shallow”.3 
The episodic “podcast” framework is a brilliant and elegant solution to several key mobile 
design challenges. The game is structured as “seasons” and “episodes” of Ally’s podcast, 
Echoes of Havenbay, with each episode having a self-contained case that also advances a 
larger conspiracy arc.3 This provides clear milestones and built-in narrative hooks that are 
ideal for long-term player retention.3 The “dual-voice” system, which combines real-time 
dialogue with Ally’s reflective podcast narration, is an elegant solution that keeps the 
player immersed without requiring complex, resource-intensive animated cutscenes.3 The 
world-building is rich and layered, providing a convincing backdrop with distinct districts, 
political power struggles, and a cast of archetypal noir characters.3 This ensures the game 
has a tangible, lived-in feel that supports the narrative and makes the mysteries feel more 
grounded. 
This podcast framework is more than just a thematic choice; it is a powerful, self-justifying 
retention tool. The plan notes that solving a case “unlocks a produced podcast episode,” 
which acts as a “trophy” and a recap of the player’s work.3 This elegantly solves a 
fundamental mobile gaming problem: what happens when a player takes a break? They 
return not to a confusing, cluttered board, but to a rewarding “trophy” that perfectly recaps 
their progress. This makes returning to the game feel satisfying and effortless, thereby 
boosting D7 and D30 retention. The marketing potential is also immense, as the game’s 
actual podcast could be used as pre-launch promotional material, blurring the line between 
game and media in a way that would deeply appeal to true-crime fans.3 
The feasibility of the content demands for a solo developer represents a significant risk. 
The core loop and narrative framework are strong, but a single “season” with multiple 
“episodes” requires a constant stream of new item trees, new character art, new dialogue, 
new sound effects, and new backgrounds.3 A solo developer’s ability to create this content 
at a pace that keeps players engaged without burning out is the single biggest design risk. 
This challenge is far more dangerous than a technical problem. A solo developer must 
prioritize building the core, reusable systems first and then use the content-creation phase 
to test for a sustainable content velocity. The plan’s emphasis on a data-driven architecture, 
where new cases are “mostly data entry and asset addition, not engine code change,” is 
crucial for mitigating this risk.3 
Monetization Strategy & Economic Blueprint 
The proposed monetization model is player-friendly and aligns perfectly with the target 
audience’s stated desires for a “respectful” experience.3 The plan aims for a hybrid model 
of optional IAPs and rewarded ads and explicitly avoids aggressive paywalls that block 
story progress, which directly addresses a key player frustration.3 This model is designed 
to generate revenue from players who are accustomed to and tolerant of rewarded ads and 
small, occasional purchases for convenience.3 
The IAP offerings and ad placements are standard and safe for a free-to-play approach. The 
plan suggests selling currency packs, boosters, a “no-ads” one-time purchase, and 
cosmetic/bonus content.3 The core ad placements are tied to energy refills, extra 
generators, and double rewards.3 These are all opt-in and directly enhance gameplay, 
making them a value-add for non-paying users. The plan also outlines standard but solid 
LiveOps and retention features, including weekly mini-cases, daily login streaks, and time-
limited suspects, which aligns with industry best practices for narrative-driven games to 
maintain engagement.3 
The plan’s “respectful” approach is excellent for converting “dolphins” who make small, 
occasional purchases. However, it may inadvertently limit revenue from “whales,” a small 
cohort of players who generate a disproportionately large amount of revenue. The current 
“whale path” is limited to “Case packs,” which may not be enough to satisfy high-spending 
players or generate the revenue needed to sustain a project of this scope.3 To address the 
realities of the free-to-play market, the plan could benefit from introducing high-value, 
non-essential sinks that whales can engage with, such as a “Season Pass” or exclusive 
cosmetic content.3 
The game’s core loop is designed to create a powerful sense of emotional investment in the 
story, and the monetization should leverage this. For example, a “Season Pass” could offer 
early access to podcast episodes, exclusive character dossiers, or bonus side-cases that 
deepen the lore. This frames monetization as a way for the player to “support the 
experience she loves” rather than as a way to overcome a progression wall.3 This is a 
subtle but powerful shift in player psychology that builds trust and loyalty, potentially 
increasing long-term audience and revenue. 
The following table provides a tactical, point-by-point critique of the monetization plan, 
evaluating each proposed feature against best practices and the game’s core philosophy. 
Table 2: Monetization Touchpoints Analysis 
Monetization Touchpoint 
Implementation Details 
Strategic Evaluation 
Recommendation for Improvement 
Energy Refills 
Rewarded Ad & IAP. 
Player-friendly, rewards engagement, aligns with audience’s “time-well-spent” motivation. 
Tune the energy system via remote config during soft launch to find the ideal point where 
the player is comfortable with the energy cap but still has the option to extend play. 
Bonus Items & Boosters 
Rewarded Ad & IAP. 
Provides convenience for players who want to accelerate progress; optional and non-
essential. 
A/B test different booster pack contents and price points to find the ideal offering that 
encourages a first-time purchase. 
No-Ads Purchase 
One-time IAP. 
Builds trust with the player base and caters to those who prefer an uninterrupted 
experience; good for generating long-term loyalty. 
If implemented, ensure this purchase also grants a small, non-game-breaking perk (like a 
daily bonus) to make the value proposition feel even stronger. 
Season Pass / Battle Pass 
Not planned for launch, but mentioned as a post-launch possibility. 
Ideal for long-term, recurring revenue; monetizes player’s emotional investment in the 
narrative. 
This should be a high-priority post-launch feature. The pass can offer early access to 
episodes and exclusive cosmetics without locking the core story. 
Case Packs 
IAP (for whales). 
Provides a path for high-spending players, but the offering is limited. 
Introduce higher-value cosmetic packs or exclusive side-quests as a future monetization 
sink to cater to whales without disrupting the free-to-play loop. 
Marketing & User Acquisition Plan 
The pre-launch and community-building plan is a best-practice blueprint for a professional 
studio, but its execution by a solo developer is a major operational risk. The plan calls for 
an ambitious 90-day campaign across multiple channels, including Meta, TikTok, and 
Reddit, with milestone rewards and influencer collaborations.3 This is a professional-grade 
strategy that, if executed well, could generate significant organic buzz.3 
The soft launch goals are realistic and grounded in industry benchmarks. The plan targets a 
CPI of less than $2.50 and D1 and D7 retention rates of over 35% and 12%, respectively.3 
These are strong, quantifiable goals that, if met, would indicate a viable product ready for a 
broader launch.3 The proposed creative angles, such as “merge-to-reveal clue” ads and 
“suspect face-off” polls, are a perfect match for the target audience’s interests in both 
puzzles and true crime.3 The use of a “mock podcast trailer” is a particularly strong hook 
for a fan base that actively engages with that medium, and it directly supports the game’s 
core narrative framing.3 
The marketing plan is a classic case of overscoping for a solo developer. A single person 
cannot simultaneously be a full-time game developer, a community manager (on Discord 
and Reddit), a TikTok content creator, and a UA specialist running paid campaigns.3 This is 
a recipe for burnout and failure, a common pitfall for indie developers who vastly 
underestimate the time and effort required for marketing.4 A more prudent strategy for a 
solo developer would be to focus on a low-cost, high-ROI organic phase first. This involves 
creating engaging devlogs on social media, building a small but dedicated Discord 
community of superfans, and using that community to generate initial momentum and 
word-of-mouth. If this organic growth proves that the core loop and narrative are 
compelling, then the paid UA budget can be used to scale a proven model, not to test a 
hypothesis. This reduces financial risk and allows the developer to focus on the most 
important task: making a great game. 
The following table provides a reality check, comparing the plan’s goals against industry 
standards to assess their feasibility and a path to viability. 
Table 3: Soft Launch KPI Benchmarks 
KPI 
Project Goal 
Industry Benchmark (Puzzle/Narrative) 
Viability Assessment 
CPI (Cost Per Install) 
<$2.50 3 
$1.50–$3.50 
Achievable. The goal is at the lower end of the average range, but highly creative and 
targeted ads could make it a reality. 
D1 Retention 
>35% 3 
30%–45% 
Achievable. A strong first-time user experience and a powerful narrative hook will be key 
to hitting this. 
D7 Retention 
>12% 3 
10%–20% 
Achievable. The episodic podcast structure and mini-games should provide a strong pull 
to get players to return for new content. 
ARPDAU (Average Revenue Per Daily Active User) 
$0.20–$0.40 3 
$0.20–$0.60 
Achievable. The revenue model is solid, but the project must prove it can convert 
“dolphins” and provide value for whales. 
ROAS (Return on Ad Spend) 
100% breakeven at D90 3 
80%–120% 
Ambitious. Achieving a D90 breakeven is a solid target, but it depends heavily on the long-
term engagement of paying users and the overall monetization health. 
Technical & Production Roadmap Assessment 
The project’s overall scope is its biggest vulnerability for a solo developer. A full season of 
episodic content, multiple character arts, and a polished live-ops framework is an immense 
undertaking for one person. The plan to deliver this vision in a 9- to 12-month timeline is 
highly aggressive and susceptible to “scope creep,” a major pitfall for indie developers.4 
The sheer volume of content creation—art, writing, sound—in addition to technical 
development, creates a high risk of developer burnout.1 
The technical foundation is sound and well-suited for the project’s goals. The choice of 
Unity 6 with the Universal Render Pipeline (URP) 2D is a robust, industry-standard choice 
for cross-platform mobile development.3 The use of Firebase for analytics, cloud save, and 
remote configuration is a smart move that offloads complex backend work to a stable, well-
supported service.3 The planned architecture, including a “domain-driven” core and 
“event-driven” modules, is a sophisticated approach that, while complex to set up, will 
make the project more scalable and easier to manage in the long run.3 
The elegant data-driven content model described in the plan is the real power of the 
technical approach. A novice might confuse a good plan with the ability to execute it 
quickly. However, the sophisticated architecture means that once the core system is built, 
adding a new case is “mostly data entry and asset addition, not engine code change”.3 The 
risk isn’t that the engine will fail, but that the developer will get bogged down creating 
thousands of small art assets and lines of dialogue. This highlights the crucial need for a 
more disciplined, phased approach to development. 
A more viable strategy for the solo developer is to build a highly polished, singular chapter 
as a “vertical slice” and use it to test the soft launch KPIs.1 This transforms the MVP from 
just a technical test into a critical business milestone. If the retention and monetization 
metrics are strong on this small slice of content, it can be used to attract funding from a 
publisher or investor.11 This would then allow the solo developer to build the rest of the 
content with a team and a proper budget, thereby de-risking the entire project and 
ensuring its long-term sustainability.2 
The following table serves as a final, scannable summary of the most critical 
recommendations. 
Table 4: Key Recommendations Checklist 
Recommendation 
Priority 
Rationale 
Re-Scope MVP to a Single Case 
Critical 
Delivering a highly polished “vertical slice” proves the core concept’s viability before the 
developer commits to an immense content volume.1 
Prioritize Organic Marketing 
Critical 
Focus on low-cost, high-impact devlogs and community-building to validate the game’s 
appeal and generate momentum before investing in paid UA.3 
Formalize the Monetization Roadmap 
High 
Introduce a clear long-term monetization path, like a season pass, to appeal to high-
spending users and ensure sustainable revenue post-launch.3 
Focus on Core Loops First 
High 
Delay production of secondary features like mini-games or excessive character dialogue 
until the core merge loop is proven to be sticky and fun.9 
Leverage Outsourcing for Key Assets 
Medium 
Acknowledge that a solo developer cannot produce every single asset. Outsource key 
character portraits, music, or a few crucial UI assets to a freelancer to maintain quality.3 
Actionable Recommendations & Conclusion 
The project’s core concept, driven by a well-defined target audience and a brilliant 
narrative framework, possesses immense potential. However, its current operational plan 
is overscoped and high-risk for a solo developer. By implementing the following prioritized 
action list, the developer can significantly de-risk the project and increase its likelihood of 
success. 
Prioritized Action List 
1. Phase 1 (Pre-Production): Vertical Slice Focus. Narrow the initial scope to a single, 
highly polished case that can be delivered as a complete “Episode 1” experience. The 
goal is to prove the core loop is engaging and monetizable, not to build a full season of 
content.1 
2. Phase 2 (Soft Launch): Data-Driven Iteration. Launch the vertical slice in a limited 
market and use analytics to test the core KPIs (D1, D7 retention) and the monetization 
model. Use this data to rapidly tune the energy system, item drop rates, and narrative 
pacing.3 
3. Phase 3 (Post-Launch): Content Velocity. Once the KPIs are proven, build the 
content creation pipeline and architecture, as outlined in the GDD, to a state of high 
efficiency. This allows the developer to add new content on a sustainable schedule 
without reinventing the wheel.3 
4. Phase 4 (Scaling): Rationalized Marketing. If the soft launch KPIs are met, use the 
pre-planned creative assets and paid UA budget to scale marketing and grow the 
audience. This transitions the project from a high-risk gamble to a scalable business.3 
By following these recommendations, the project’s viability score can rise from its current 
8/10 to a potential 9/10 or even 10/10. The plan shifts from an ambitious but risky 
undertaking to a calculated and achievable business venture. The project’s success hinges 
on a single, critical decision: to prioritize a phased, disciplined approach over an all-or-
nothing, full-scale launch. The fusion of a compelling, data-backed concept with a refined, 
risk-mitigated execution model is the path forward for Ally Quinn: True Crime Merge to 
stand out as a true success in the mobile gaming landscape. 
Testing and Quality Assurance 
Claude: 
There are several crowdsourced beta testing options, each with different strengths: 
Dedicated Platforms: 
• TestFlight (iOS) - Apple’s built-in solution, free, supports up to 10,000 testers. Good for 
technical testing but limited feedback tools. 
• Google Play Console Beta (Android) - Similar to TestFlight, supports closed/open 
testing tracks. 
• PlaytestCloud - Pays testers to play and record sessions with think-aloud commentary. 
Expensive ($100-300 per test session) but high-quality UX feedback. 
• BetaFamily - Free/paid tiers, targets mobile games specifically, provides video 
recordings and bug reports. 
• UserTesting - General UX testing, not game-specific, but good for structured tasks and 
questions. 
Community Approaches: 
• Reddit (/r/playmygame, /r/gamedev, genre-specific subs) - Free but unstructured 
feedback, variable quality. 
• Discord servers - Game dev communities often have beta-testing channels. More 
engaged testers but smaller pools. 
• IndieDB/itch.io - Post early builds, but feedback is sparse unless you build an audience 
first. 
Important Considerations: 
1. Feedback quality vs. quantity trade-off - 10 engaged testers who understand your 
goals beat 1000 random downloads with no feedback. 
2. Structure your feedback requests - Don’t just ask “what do you think?” Specific 
questions get useful answers: “Did you understand the merge mechanic in the first 2 
minutes?” “Rate tutorial clarity 1-10.” 
3. Segment your testing - Different groups for different dimensions: 
– Technical QA: bug hunters (reddit/discord communities) 
– UX/tutorial: PlaytestCloud or moderated sessions 
– Retention/engagement: soft launch to real users via app stores 
– Monetization balance: engaged beta community who’ll play longer sessions 
4. Your merge game specifically - Given the economy concerns I flagged in the spec, you 
need testers who’ll play 5+ sessions over several days to test the inventory squeeze, 
not just 20-minute first impressions. 
5. Beware selection bias - Free beta testers skew toward hardcore gamers and game dev 
enthusiasts. They’re not your target casual audience. Paid testing (PlaytestCloud) gets 
closer to real users. 
Practical Recommendation: 
Start with a small closed group (10-20 people from Discord/reddit) for basic UX and 
obvious bugs. Once stable, use PlaytestCloud for 3-5 moderated UX sessions focusing on 
specific questions (tutorial, first merge, inventory frustration points). Then do a larger soft 
launch via Play Store open beta or TestFlight to measure retention and monetization in the 
wild. 
The spec you showed me suggests your game has meaningful economy implications. You 
need long-term testers, not one-shot feedback. Consider offering “founder” perks to early 
testers who stick with it through multiple builds. 
Grok: 
Hey there! Brainstorming game dev ideas is always fun—love that you’re prioritizing 
comprehensive beta testing. Crowdsourced beta testing is a fantastic approach for mobile 
games, as it taps into diverse real-world users who can provide feedback across all those 
dimensions you mentioned (UX, gameplay, story, graphics, audio, quality, bugs, and more). 
It leverages global pools of testers on varied devices, often with targeted recruitment, and 
many platforms handle distribution, surveys, and analytics to make it scalable and 
actionable. 
  
Based on current options, here are some of the most relevant crowdsourced platforms for 
mobile game beta testing. I’ve focused on those with strong game support, real-user 
diversity, and multi-faceted feedback tools. Most offer paid tiers for larger-scale testing, but 
some have free or low-cost entry points for indies. 
  
### Top Crowdsourced Beta Testing Platforms for Mobile Games 
  
Platform | Key Features | Best For | Pricing Notes | 
|———-|————–|———-|—————| 
Game Tester (gametester.gg) | Connects devs directly with gamers for PC/Android/iOS 
testing; in-depth user research on gameplay/story/UX; real-time insights via video/audio 
feedback; bug reporting with screenshots/clips. | Targeted gamer feedback on fun factor, 
balance, and immersion—great for story-driven or graphics-heavy games. | Starts free for 
small tests; paid plans scale with tester volume. | 
BetaTesting (betatesting.com) | 400k+ vetted testers worldwide; 100+ targeting criteria 
(e.g., age, device, location); surveys for UX/audio/quality; automated bug tracking and 
analytics. | Broad dimensions like bugs/graphics across diverse audiences; easy scaling for 
global launches. | Free for basic invites; pro plans from ~$500/test cycle. | 
Beta Family (betafamily.com) | Crowd for iOS/Android betas; filter testers by 
demographics/devices; customizable surveys/templates for gameplay/story/bugs; 
detailed reports with exports. | Quick, affordable feedback on UX/bugs from real users; 
strong for indie mobile games. | Pay-per-tester (e.g., $5-10 each); no subscription required. 
| 
test IO (test.io) | 50k+ expert testers on real devices/locations; real-time bug reporting; 
covers functionality, security, usability, and edge cases. | Comprehensive QA including 
audio/quality/stability; ideal for polishing pre-launch. | Project-based pricing; starts 
around $1k for medium tests. | 
Testlio (testlio.com) | Managed crowdsourcing with game-specific workflows; diverse 
testers for real-world scenarios; feedback on mechanics, crashes, and user journeys. | 
Breaking internal biases with fresh eyes on gameplay/story; accelerates iterations. | 
Custom quotes; geared toward mid-sized studios but flexible for indies. | 
Ubertesters (ubertesters.com) | OTA app distribution; crowd + pro testers; tracks 
crashes/events; surveys for UX/graphics/audio. | Bug hunting and quality assurance with 
easy updates; good for ongoing betas. | Freemium model; pro features from $32/month. | 
Global App Testing (GAT) (globalapptesting.com) | Global crowd for mobile/web; 
exploratory testing + surveys; covers localization and accessibility too. | Cost-effective 
diverse input on all dimensions, especially for international audiences. | Starts at ~$750 for 
10-day cycles. | 
  
These platforms generally work by letting you upload your build, define test tasks/surveys 
(e.g., “Rate the story pacing on a 1-10 scale” or “Describe any audio glitches”), recruit 
testers, and get aggregated reports. Many integrate with tools like Jira or Slack for seamless 
dev workflows. 
  
### Quick Tips to Maximize Feedback 
- Start Small: Run a closed beta with 50-100 targeted testers (e.g., via Beta Family) to focus 
on core gameplay/bugs, then scale to open crowdsourcing for UX/story polish. 
- Diversify Dimensions: Use built-in surveys for quantitative scores (e.g., graphics quality) 
and open-ended prompts for qualitative insights (e.g., “What felt immersive about the 
audio?”). 
- Incentivize Testers: Most platforms handle payments/rewards, but offering early access 
or swag can boost engagement. 
- Combine with Free Options: For ultra-low budget, post on Reddit (r/playmygame or 
r/gamedev), Discord game communities, or itch.io betas to supplement crowdsourced pros. 
  
If your game has a niche (e.g., iGaming or VR elements), platforms like TESTA or specialized 
ones might fit better. Got more details on your game’s genre or platform? I can refine these 
recs further! 